Remember this campaign uses the Great Resynchronization calendar as it's set before the Battle of Yavin. There are 12 months to the year, 4 weeks per month and 7 days per week. The names of the months in order of the first month are:
Banthaar: Named after the Bantha, a creature native to Tatooine.
Corusca: After the Coruscant capital and the Corusca gem.
Alderaa: Inspired by the planet Alderaan.
Hothma: Named after the icy planet Hoth.
Endora: A nod to the forest moon of Endor.
Bespinar: From the gas giant Bespin, known for Cloud City.
Rylotha: Combining Ryloth, the Twi'lek homeworld, with Lothal from 'Star Wars Rebels.'
Yavinar: After Yavin, the location of a major Rebel base.
Mandalorei: Named after the planet Mandalore, home to Mandalorian warriors.
Dathomira: From Dathomir, the planet of Nightsisters and Darth Maul.
Feluciaar: Inspired by the vibrant, jungle planet Felucia.
Kashyyka: Named after Kashyyyk, the Wookiee homeworld.
The campaign began on the 1st of Banthaar, year 13 of the Great Resynchronization.


Campaign Timeline:
Year 13 of the Great Resynchronization
Firstmonth (Banthaar)
Firstday:
The party met in the Mos Eisley Cantina. All began to get to know each other.

At one point Ten'Shin managed to steal the comlink of Greef Teeka and the party determined he is working for someone called Zan and is actively looking for Aldar Tallon. There was much nonsense. Ten'Shin also tried and, initially failed, to steal the speederbike of a trandoshan.

Zil Gik also stole a speeder, but did so quietly by hotwiring it.

They party has decided to head for the Power Station in an attempt to "borrow" some equipment to scan for Aldar Tallon in addition to continuing to listen to Greef Teeka to see if his group has located Aldar Tallon.
GM Notes:
Ten'Shin has pissed off Sskar Vossk - leader of the Desert Fangs by stealing his speeder. This is most likely going to go somewhere as Ten'Shin did it immediately outside the docking bay the group has both ships in and it's not exactly difficult for the Desert Fangs to figure out which ships belongs to Ten'Shin


Seconday:
Party continued in their search for Aldair Tallon in Mos Eisley. They hit up the charging center on the edge of town, spotting Grond watching them there while pretending to be charging and offline. Eventually they stole the parts they needed to create a mishmash of sensors in an attempt to detect the echo drive being used in the deep desert of Tatooine. They also geared up for an assault on Grond with Ten'Shin borrowing an ion blaster from Sivvi, the leader of the tribe of Jawa living in the center of Mos Eisley. Zil Gik "borrowed" an ion grenade from her employer Tanno Vikra. The party was able to attack and disable Grond in two rounds, causing mostly ion damage to the droid. They then gathered the disabled droid up, fled to McCallin's ship Yojimbo. After leaving the tracking beacon from Sskar Vossk's speederbike in the docking bay, they took off and began using the sensor mishmash Zil Gik cobbled together. They were able to pick up a signal in the deep desert, land, and make contact with Aldair Tallon. They had a brief conversation before alarms began sounding in Aldair Tallon's lair. The session ended there.
