This is a character in the star wars saga edition rpg campaign.

Name: McCallin 
Race: Human
Class: Scoundrel (Maybe secretly Jedi?)
Age: 43
Height: 5’11’’
Weight: 191
Hair: Black
Eyes: Hazel

Secret History/Facts: 

McCallin was born Raymus Saval on the colony planet of Avedot. He has no childhood memories except for the vision of a woman, and a little boy that he feels is his mother and younger brother. In his memory, they are terrified. Beyond that, it is just the Jedi. His childhood and adolescence experiences were shared with other children engaged in Jedi training. While he was perficient with the Force - especially when it came to clouding minds - and a lightsaber, he distinguished himself among the other students with his constant questions. Questions about his past, his planet, the galaxy. Anything that he could think of. His questions were often meet with simple responses, indifference, or the command to not dwell on such things; just focus on the present and the Jedi. Saval thought it odd that others did not share his frustration with not knowing or being expected to blindly follow without questioning. Early on, he developed doubt about the dogmatic nature of the Jedi, and the way that they viewed the galaxy. This doubt only grew in time. 

At sixteen, Saval was assigned to a Jedi Knight, Telemus, to go to Avedot on a diplomatic mission. The Avedotian government was dealing with a miner strike and requested mediation from the Jedi. Saval was choosen due to him being native from the planet. Saval reminded everyone that he knew nothing about Avedot, but, as usual, his remark was ignored. He was to be a prop for the Avedotians; nothing more. Telemus and Saval arrived on Avedot to learn that the miners, along with their families, had relocated to the moon of Avedot to avoid confrontation with the Avedotian government. Their had been isolated outbursts of violence between the strikers and the government, but nothing substantial. Regardless, the government declared the strikers as a terrorist organization, justifying the label due to those incidents of violence and that the miners had damaged the economy of the planet. Telemus agreed with the assessment of the government with no investigation on his part. 

The government decided to send a bombing run on the miner’s bases, targeting the leaders of the strike. Saval objected to this course of action but his voice was a lonely one and was ignored. Deciding that he couldn’t stand by and do nothing, so he stole a ship to warn the miners of what was coming. After he alearted the leaders of the upcoming attack, he was confronted by Telemus, who had known Saval’s thoughts and followed with his own ship. A confrontation erupted with Telemus defeating the overmatched Padawan. What course of action Telemus would have taken against Saval is unknown, because after the conclusion of the fight, the bombing raid of the base began. While the miners managed to evacuate a majority of the base occupants, a number of civilians were killed, including children. Telemus was also killed in the first wave of bombs, and Saval believed that Telemus protected Saval with the force instead of himself. Using Telemus’s lightsaber - as Saval’s own was destroyed - he freed himself from the wreckage. 

Saval did not remain long with the miners as the government’s attacked created a large, more militant fraction among the miners. It wouldn’t be long before they became the terrorist organization that the government already claimed them to be, using tactics that targeted civilians. Faking his own death and armed with Telemu’s lightsaber, Saval left his home planet a second time. He changed his name to McCallin, based on a type of brand of liquor that he drank after his survival of the bombing.

McCallin still practices weekly with the force and lightsaber.

McCallin disassembles the lightsaber (it is medium) when he is in public, carrying two pieces in his belt and hiding the main part in the middle of his electostaff. If he needs to utilize the lightsaber, he can quickly assemble it. He would only use the lightsaber in the most dire of circumstances. In fact, he has only used it twice in combat in the twenty years since his battle with Telemus. 

McCallin primarily uses the force to persuade or to cloud the minds of others, but only to assist others, such as making a border agent more susceptible to a bribe. 

Basic facts: 

McCallin makes his living (so to speak) helping people, especially those affected by war and conflict. This help takes shape in a variety of ways: he finds those that are missing, assists in relocating refugees to safer areas, smuggle medical supplies and resources to war torn areas (he does not smuggle weapons or things that would assist in war), assists NGOs, and protects the helpless from gangs, pirates, government, and the mob. His assistance ranges anywhere from sneaking through military blockades to helping an abused child.

McCallin uses a melee weapon (Electrostaff) and a blaster pistol. He can also use explosives.

McCallin is knowledgable in history, politics, and different cultures. 

He can communicate in the more common languages of the galaxy. 

He will not work for governments or for the Jedi. It would take extraordinary circumstances before he would evn associate himself with government agencies, although his work makes him known among those groups.

A little bit of an Anarchist. Not that he advocates violence (an common misunderstanding of Anarchy) or even that he is against authority. Just thinks that the bigger a government (like say, an empire) and the bigger the bureaucracy, the less likely it actually serves the interests of the people. 

Tries to avoid Jedi whenever possible.

McCallin does get paid for his work, but he is not driven for profit and will only take what his clients can offer. He is not above “reacquisiting” credits from criminals. 
McCallin will engage in violence but tries to use it only as a last resort. Unless the circumstances dictates otherwise, he prefers to only stun his opponents. This does not mean he will not kill in self-defense or to save others. He has also killed opponents at his mercy if they are particularly evil. 

Not sure about what type of ship he uses, but he pretty much lives in it. Big enough to transport small groups (8-10 if they all showered). Not a particularly good pilot. Relies more on sneaky.

Does not have a lot of personal relationships (guy does live on a ship), but had a few serious romances throughout the years. 

Sardonic, cynical, self-derecating, humorous, and more than a little world weary, McCallin still works well with groups. He distrusts groups but believes in the individual.

GM Notes:
No love lost for either side in the Clone Wars.
Definite potential plot lines everywhere given his work experience and those he's worked with.
Owes Jabba the Hutt a favor. Jabba will be cashing in on that.
