This is a player character in the star wars saga edition rpg campaign. Below is her backstory as well as physical appearance and other notes.

Name: Nom Drex
Species: Falleen
Gender: Female
Age: 102
And there I was. I left my home world Falleen to become a soldier. I no longer had to rely on my face to get what I needed or wanted out of life. I could work and earn my way hidden behind my helmet. Always behind the helmet. My people are fine warriors with their own armies, but tend to stick to our own kind. I wanted more.
I miss my people, my family, but they did not understand my desire to be more than a female, more than a pretty face. I did not want a noble or diplomatic life. I wanted to fight for my people with my hands and mind, not my voice and appearance. I never felt trusted or taken seriously when engaging with others because they expect me to be bewitching them. Behind a helmet with a blaster, I demand a completely different kind of  presence. 
It was only by chance that the convoy landed on Falleen. Maybe not so much by chance but for a good time. I was able to convince the republic commander of a squad in the Republic Judicial Forces to take me to camp to be trained. I will use my species to get where I need to be. Once on base, at training camp, no one took me seriously. But I showed them: I’m fast, strong, smart, calculated, and bested most of them in the water. 
Where no one but me thought I’d succeed, I made a career. Fifty years later, I’m retired, but I’m not ready to stay home. No one knows what to make of me and the truth is that I prefer to take orders and not have to think for myself. 

I have long served the republic in the Judicial Forces, and my people are more loyal to them, and we have no love for the droid army. However I am not confident in the abilities of the republic senators as they tend to be either too emotionally involved or they are greedy and only look after their own interests. I prefer to look after the needs of those who cannot take care of themselves or to serve a greater purpose and find peace.


GM Notes:
Definitely leans to Republic support and no love lost against the Confederate Independent Systems (seperatists).
Some plot lines here with past soldier experience, perhaps.
