A GOING CONCERN
A GOING CONCERN

ADVANCED RULES FOR OWNING
ADVANCED RULES FOR OWNING
 & OPERATING A BUSINESS
 & OPERATING A BUSINESS
IN  5TH EDITION DUNGEONS & DRAGONS
IN  5TH EDITION DUNGEONS & DRAGONS

GRUMPY DOG GAME DESIGN
GRUMPY DOG GAME DESIGN

Foreword

This product was first published back in 2017. Many copies 
have been sold since then, and hopefully many fun gaming 
memories have been created using the optional rules 
presented herein. This latest revision to the product has a 
specific purpose: To teach me how to build a large product 
file in Adobe InDesign. The fact that the end product should 
be more readable and visually appealing is a nice bonus.

For those of you new to this product, welcome! And thank 

you for supporting GDGD. If there’s one complaint I’ve 
heard over the last few years about A Going Concern, it’s that 
it’s too complicated. And yes, that did tempt me to revisit this 
product in an attempt to simplify the rules. But in the end, I 
chose not to. The Dungeon Master’s Guide already has simple 
rules for running a business during adventuring downtime 
and I don’t see a reason to overlap those rules with more 
of the same.

A Going Concern is intended to be a set of advanced rules 
for players (and dungeon masters) who want to make the 
running of a business a dynamic and significant element 
in their D&D campaign. To that end, these rules allow 
player characters to influence the success of their business 
endeavours through meaningful investments of their 
characters’ time and effort. There’s some bookkeeping to be 
done here, but the goal is that this supplement lets you feel 
like you’re running a business rather than simply making an 
occasional roll on an abstract table.

And so to you I say, good luck! Remember that nothing 

worthwhile is easy, and running a successful business 
is one of the most challenging, and most rewarding, 
things you can do.

P. Daniel Johnson, Autumn 2022

Credits

Design: P. Daniel Johnson
Artwork Courtesy Of:
Rijksmuseum
Adobe Creative Cloud

InDesign template: Nathanaël Roux (http://www.

barkalotdesigns.com)

Thanks to Christopher Dyer, whose excellent book Making 
a Living in the Middle Ages was an invaluable reference and 
inspiration for this supplement.

Grumpy Dog Game Design
Grumpy Dog Game Design
“Slightly above average gaming products for slightly 

below average prices”

DUNGEONS & DRAGONS, D&D, Wizards of the 
Coast, Forgotten Realms, Ravenloft, Eberron, the dragon 
ampersand, Ravnica and all other Wizards of the Coast 
product names, and their respective logos are trademarks of 
Wizards of the Coast in the USA and other countries.

This work contains material that is copyright Wizards of 
the Coast and/or other authors. Such material is used with 
permission under the Community Content Agreement for 
Dungeon Masters Guild.

All other original material in this work is copyright 2017 by 
Paul Johnson and published under the Community Content 
Agreement for Dungeon Masters Guild.

 
introduCtion 

overview 

starting a Business 

Contents
Contents

4

5

6

interest 

goodwill 

return on investment  

19

21

21

Step 1: Base Return on Investment ................................. 21
Step 2: Market Environment ........................................... 21
Step 3: Random Events .................................................... 21
Step 4: Management Actions ........................................... 21
Step 5: Finalize Market Environment ............................ 21
Step 6: Finalize Investment.............................................. 21
Step 7: Finalize Return on Investment ........................... 21
Step 8: Apply Risk Factor ................................................ 21
Step 9: Determine Gross Return ..................................... 21
Step 10: Calculate Interest ............................................... 22
Step 11: Determine Net Return ...................................... 22
Step 12: Determine Monthly Performance .................... 22
Step 13: Update Business Sheet ....................................... 22

monthly perFormanCe 

22

Profit .................................................................................. 22
Reinvestment .................................................................... 22
Debt .................................................................................... 23
Shrinkage ........................................................................... 23
Divestiture ......................................................................... 23
Bankruptcy ........................................................................ 23
Profit and Loss Considerations for Shared Investments 
and Business Combinations .................................................... 24
new BaCkground – Family Business 

25

Feature: Investment Heir ................................................. 25
Suggested Characteristics ................................................. 25

Feudal and Capitalist eConomies 

magiC 

adventure hooks 

Business examples 

26

26

27

29

Business Example 1: The Emblazoned Escutcheon ....... 29
Business Example 2: The Orc’s Fork Tavern and 
Flophouse .................................................................................. 30
appendix: the Business sheet 

33

Types of Businesses ............................................................ 6
Resource .............................................................................. 6
Manufacturing .................................................................... 6
Resale ................................................................................... 7
Service .................................................................................. 7
Shared investments ............................................................ 8
Business Combinations ...................................................... 8
Buying a Business ............................................................... 9
Starting from Scratch ......................................................... 9

Business Culture 

10

Criminal ............................................................................. 10
Cut-throat ......................................................................... 10
Front .................................................................................. 10
Innovative ......................................................................... 10
None ................................................................................... 10
Traditional ......................................................................... 10
Trendy ............................................................................... 10
Changing Culture ............................................................. 11

the risk FaCtor 

operating a Business 

11

12

The Monthly Business Cycle ........................................... 12
Market Environment ....................................................... 12
Economic ........................................................................... 12
Political .............................................................................. 13
Strife ................................................................................... 13
Competition ...................................................................... 13
Developing a Narrative for Market Conditions ............ 13

random events  

15

Devaluation ....................................................................... 15
Malfunction ....................................................................... 15
Cancelled contract ............................................................ 15
Theft .................................................................................. 15
Illness ................................................................................. 15
Fair ..................................................................................... 15
Appreciation...................................................................... 15

management aCtions 

16

Contract Labour ............................................................... 16
Espionage........................................................................... 17
Expansion .......................................................................... 17
Invention ........................................................................... 17
Maintenance ...................................................................... 18
Marketing .......................................................................... 18
Negotiation ........................................................................ 18
Sabotage ............................................................................. 19
Training ............................................................................. 19

We don’t have much time.”

The lad wore a confused expression. He clearly didn’t share 

his companions’ concern. “I don’t see why we need to sneak 
around and spy on them,” he said, “they have as much right to do 
business as we do.”

The half-elf darted a sharp glare at the big human, but Kiln 
raised a hand to stop any rebuke. “Listen Rig, there’s hardly enough 
logging in this area to support two workshops as it is, and now it 
seems our competition is building two more workshops on top of 
the one they already run.”

The lad stared back at the dwarf and blinked. Nothing in 

his expression showed he grasped the implication of what 
Kiln was saying.

The dwarf thought for a second and then asked, “how many 

workers do we keep employed here, Rig?”

The boy’s eyes drifted towards the ceiling. After a moment he 

replied, “a lot”.

“Right. And what would happen to them if our competitors drove 

us out of business?”

The tactic worked. Rig’s eyes widened and his mouth dropped 
open. “But the money they earn here feeds their families, pays their 
rent,” the human said softly, “they’d all be out of work!”

More likely they would just go work for our competitors, Kiln 
thought, but the lad doesn’t need to be bothered with details. There 
was a time he was reluctant to work with someone with so many 
morals, but now he saw how easily they could be manipulated and 
wished he’d realized it decades ago.

The half-elf was already gliding out the back door. “We’ll take 

the long way and come up from the river bank in case there’s a 
watch. Come on now, they might have guards,” she said as she 
disappeared into the darkness.

“It won’t matter if they do,” Rig said slowly as he stood up from 
the table, his chair screeching against the floor as he shoved it back. 
He reached down to where his maul leaned against a workbench, 
hefting the massive cudgel effortlessly. “You know something, 
Kiln? It was a lot easier when we used to make money fighting 
monsters and such.”

The dwarf clapped Rig on a well-muscled arm as he followed 
him out into the night air. “You have the right of it, lad, but there 
are only so many lost temples to plunder, so many evil wizards to 
thwart. And a man has to make a living.”

At the far end of the alley, Veneranda’s shadow detached 
itself from a wall and led them across a deserted street. The city 
slumbered; the constables dozed at their posts. The wet murmur of 
the river in the distance grew louder. Not loud enough to drown the 
noise of a pair of construction sites being smashed into kindling, 
but they’d be quick about it. A man needed to make a living after 
all, and tonight was as good a night as any for it.

introduCtion
introduCtion

 The workshop smelled of sawdust and machine oil. 

Kiln traced the parallel paths left by the legs of 
the table he now hunched over through the wood 
shavings that littered the floor from where he 
had dragged it across the room. It wasn’t a large 
workshop. During the day this space was filled 

with craftsmen and labourers, but at night it made for a decent 
meeting space, even if the furniture needed to be rearranged for it. 
The table top was the only visible surface not piled with tools and 
half-finished bits of carpentry.

Across the table, the half-elf was studying a parchment roll she 

held open with spread fingers. He couldn’t read anything on it 
from where he sat. There was some sort of diagram surrounded by 
incomprehensible scratches. Some kind of proprietary shorthand, so 
no one else could read her work he guessed.

“Couldn’t you have just brought the originals?” He asked.
The half-elf didn’t look up. After a moment she distractedly 
muttered, “yes, and then they would know they had been stolen. 
We would have lost all chance of surprise.”

Kiln shrugged and resumed his inspection of the room. The 
only other occupant was a human lad, seated to Kiln’s right, arms 
crossed and looking both bored and mildly uncomfortable. There 
wasn’t truly enough space for the boy between the table in front of 
him and the workbench behind. There wasn’t enough space for him 
anywhere, it seemed, unless he was outside. Kiln watched as the 
human worked his thick fingers under his gorget to rub the raw 
flesh beneath. The lad had outgrown another set of armour and 
they couldn’t afford to keep replacing it.

He returned his eyes to the half-elf, Veneranda was her name, 
who was now tapping one finger on the diagram as though she’d 
just noticed something new. Kiln knew better than to interrupt 
with a question, so he waited. She had been away longer than 
he’d hoped this time. Most of the night was now gone, the faintest 
ruddiness in the eastern sky showing through the missing slats 
in the shutters promising that morning wasn’t far off. But she’d 
been successful, that was certain, though she hadn’t said as much. 
When the half-elf had slipped in through the back door, silent as 
a bat in flight and without a word spoken, he’d recognized the 
hint of a smile, more in the lines around her eyes than the shape 
of her mouth.

Any indication of a smile was gone when she finally looked up 

from the page. “It’s two. Each is at least as big as what they have 
now, maybe bigger.”

Kiln’s heart sunk. Dwarves weren’t known for optimism, but this 

was worse than even he had thought. “How…” he began to ask.

Veneranda anticipated his question. “The construction sites were 
disguised to look residential. They’ve been at this for a while now. 

4

A GOING CONCERNoverview
overview

The intent of these rules is to present 

players with options for owning and 
operating a business, balanced between the 
goal of simulating the problems faced by real 
business owners with the need to not bog 
down the game with dreary complexities.

What is a business? Technically, any endeavour intended 
to generate a profit could be called a business. From that 
perspective, a lone musician busking on a street corner and 
the pickpocket working his way through the passing crowd 
are both “businesses”. Even a party of adventurers making 
their way into a dungeon in search of treasure is a business, 
of a sort. But the rules contained herein are not intended to 
reduce the fun of adventuring down to a few abstractions, 
nor are they intended to reflect temporary efforts on the part 
of one individual.

There is a term useful in describing a business: A going 

concern. A going concern describes the underlying 
assumption that a business is financially viable – that it will 
continue to exist and operate from month to month for an 
extended, usually indefinite period of time. This distinction 
is important because while a player character may engage in 
a range of activities designed to generate income, a business 
is an independent entity that can (and does) operate apart 
from the player characters who own it.

For the purpose of the rules contained here then, we 
will define a business as a going concern owned by, but 
with an existence separate from, one or more of the player 
characters. Importantly, this implies that the business has 
relatively competent and trustworthy employees ready and 
capable of running things while the player characters are off 
adventuring.

The Dungeon Master’s Guide contains rules for running a 
business during adventuring downtime. For most players 
and dungeon masters, those rules are perfectly serviceable. 
They do have some limitations, however. One of the most 
noticeable of these is that the degree of profit a business 
generates is calculated without respect to the size of the 
business. Another is that the player character has only the 
most abstract ability to influence the business’s operations, 
which some players may find unsatisfying. 

The optional rules laid out herein expand on the notion 
of player-owned businesses. Within, you’ll find information 
on different types of businesses and how to invest in them, 
as well as the varying degrees of risk they invite. A system 
for determining market conditions, random events, and the 
impact of management initiatives gives player characters 
a more hands-on approach to running a business. Other 
topics include adventure hooks resulting from player-owned 
businesses and the impact of magic on the economy of your 
Dungeons & Dragons game.

In order to accomplish this goal, business operations 
and the results of those operations are distilled to a few 
rule elements. Each is detailed fully further on, but a 
brief overview is presented here to familiarize the reader 
with the principal concepts before launching into a 
comprehensive discussion.

To begin, the nearly endless variety of different businesses 
is distilled down to two concepts – type and culture. This 
doesn’t limit player creativity: They can absolutely still 
invent any specific sort of business they would like, be it a 
prosaic choice like a turnip farm or blacksmithy, something 
a bit more atypical like a theatre troupe or mercenary 
company, or something truly unusual like a gorgon ranch 
or interdimensional travel agency. But for the purpose 
of owning a business in Dungeons & Dragons, this 
complexity is reduced to a selection of four business types 
and six cultures.

Having identified a business by its type and culture, we 
then look at representing the fact that some businesses have 
a higher chance of extraordinary profits, while inviting the 
possibility of extraordinary losses. This is defined by the risk 
factor, which is simply a number from 1 to 4 based on the 
inherent riskiness of the business’s type.

The next concept is investment. In the real world, 
accounting for a business is a lot of work. There are assets 
and liabilities, revenues and expenses and that’s just the 
beginning. All of that detail is reduced in these rules to one 
simple concept – investment.

A business’s investment is a single monetary value, 

typically expressed in gold pieces, that represents the basis 
for determining profits and losses (discussed more below) 
and also acts as a measure of the size of a business. This last 
point is somewhat subjective: A 750-gold piece farm may 
well be larger than a 500-gold piece farm, but the higher 
value could be due to something else, like a bigger barn or 
better access to fresh water. All of this variability in the 
size, assets and relative value of a business is captured by its 
investment value.

The final set of concepts all have to do with determining 

the results of running a business. In other words, did the 
business generate a profit or suffer a loss? At its most basic 
level, this is determined by a simple formula: the value of 
the investment multiplied by a percentage representing the 
return on investment. Most of the rules herein are involved 
with determining what that return on investment (or 
ROI) percentage is.

5

A GOING CONCERN 
Briefly, the influences on ROI are these:

• The market environment, broken down into the 
individual elements of economic, political, strife, and 
competition, which determine how favourable conditions 
are to doing business;
• Management actions, which range from marketing 
initiatives to industrial espionage and sabotage, give player 
character business owners an opportunity to directly lend a 
hand in their business’s success;
• Random events, sometimes fortuitous and sometimes 
not, add an unexpected element to the business cycle.

Beyond these principal drivers of return on investment, 

profits can be further impacted by interest costs if the 
business is carrying any debt as well as a handful of other 
factors. These returns are calculated on a monthly basis.
Now that the fundamentals of these rules have been 
introduced, the remainder of this supplement delves more 
fully into each concept.

6

starting a Business
starting a Business

Whether a player character starts a 

business by building one up from scratch 
or by purchasing an existing concern, 
the most important thing to remember 
is that owning a business is a financial 
investment, and the reason to own 

one – in almost all cases – is to generate a return on that 
investment. The concepts of investment and return on 
investment are expanded upon in greater detail further on 
(see “Return on Investment” on page 21), but first it’s 
worth examining the different types of business a player 
character can invest in.

types oF Businesses
Most fantasy campaigns are modelled to a greater or lesser 
extent on a medieval time period. That assumption is carried 
through these rules. This assumption simplifies things, 
because a medieval economy is significantly simpler than a 
modern one. Having said that, even a medieval economy is 
still complex, with a dizzying array of raw material inputs, 
goods manufactured, and services provided.

In order to meaningfully categorize the huge number of 
different types of businesses, they are organized into four 
groups: resource, manufacturing, resale, and service.

resourCe
Any business that concerns itself with acquiring the basic 
raw material inputs to the economy is a resource business. 
Mining operations produce stone, metal, gemstones, and 
salt. Agricultural endeavours produce meat and vegetable 
crops as well as hides, wool, tallow, bone, flax, cotton, and 
silk. Fisheries gather resources from lakes and the sea, while 
forestry operations produce wood. This is by no means an 
exhaustive list, but it does begin to illustrate the diverse 
range of materials a medieval economy makes use of.

The assets of resource-type businesses are varied, but 
typically are focused on ownership of (or at least the rights 
to make use of) relatively large amounts of land. They also 
usually need heavy tools and equipment like ploughs, mining 
carts, and saws. 

manuFaCturing
A massive variety of goods are manufactured from the raw 
materials generated by resource-type businesses. Most of 
these goods are also further manufactured into other goods, 
many of which are further manufactured into yet other 
goods, and so on. Although it would be impossible to fully 
list all the sorts of manufacturing businesses that can exist 
in a medieval economy, it can be helpful to work backwards 
from a particular type of finished good, envisioning all of the 
manufacturing steps required to produce that item.
The sidebar presents a rather detailed view of the 
manufacturing process of wool clothing, but it serves to 
illustrate how many different businesses can be involved in 
manufacturing even a common item like a shirt. Between the 
sheep rancher who produces raw wool and the tailor who 

A GOING CONCERNManufacturing a Wool Shirt
Using a common item of clothing, a wool shirt, as an example, 
the manufacturing steps are these: First, the raw wool supplied 
by the rancher (a resource business) needs to be sorted by 
length and quality of fibre. Then the wool is washed, usually with 
solutions of lye or urine, and worked or beaten to further clean 
and untangle the wool. Next the wool may be dyed before being 
greased with fat or oil to prepare it for combing and carding, 
where the fibres are more fully separated and straightened. 
After combing, the wool is spun into yarn using a drop spindle or 
spinning wheel. Once the wool yarn is complete, weavers take 
over and use a loom to weave the yarn into wool cloth. The wool 
cloth is not yet ready to be used for clothing, though; first it 
needs to be further washed through a process known as “fulling” 
where the wool cloth is strengthened and thickened either by 
manually stepping on it or by beating it with wooden hammers 
while soaking the cloth, again using lye or urine. Water-powered 
fulling mills may also be employed to partly automate this 
process. Once the cloth dries, it must be sheared and napped 
to remove any roughness from stray bits of fibre. Lastly, the 
cloth may be pressed and further dyed before it is complete. 
The finished wool cloth is then cut and sewn by a tailor into a 
finished wool shirt, possibly with the addition of wood, metal, or 
bone buttons. Many other processes would intersect with those 
described above, as the various tools and other products used to 
make the wool all have manufacturing processes of their own.

sells an article of clothing are as many as a half dozen other 
businesses critical to the process. If you’re inclined to start 
a manufacturing business, it’s worthwhile to research how 
things were made in the middle ages to gain a deeper insight 
into what sort of opportunities there are.

Manufacturing businesses typically comprise one or more 
buildings that serve as workshops or mills. These contain all 
of the tools needed by the business, which can be anything 
from tiny sewing needles to massive smelting furnaces.

resale
The line between manufacturing and resale is defined by 
whether or not the business made the goods it is selling. 
Many manufacturing businesses, from blacksmiths to tailors, 
sell the products they make. A resale business is different: 
Resale businesses purchase goods from another business and 
then sell them again at a higher price, making their profits 
on the difference between what they paid and what they 
were able to sell for. Most resale operations are known as 
merchants or traders.

It’s tempting to think of resale as the final step in the 

supply chain: Materials flow from those who gather 
resources to those who manufacture goods and finally to 
those who sell the finished products. This is not always true, 
however. Many merchants provide an important logistical 
role, moving goods through the supply chain. Using the 

prior example of wool cloth, a merchant likely collects 
bundles of raw wool from sheep ranchers and farmers, 
then resells it to the workshops who produce wool cloth. 
Merchants step in again to buy the cloth bolts in bulk, often 
transporting them great distances over land and sea to be 
sold again in distant markets.

Other merchants and traders are less involved in the 
transport of goods and focus instead on operating shops or 
market stalls. These resellers earn their profits by offering 
the convenience of goods for sale at a single point. It’s much 
easier to purchase fruits from a fruit stall at the market, 
for example, than to hike about from orchard to orchard 
searching for the fruits you like.

What assets are owned by a resale business is dependent 

on whether the focus of the business is distribution over 
large distances or operation of a store that serves a local 
clientele. In the former case, assets typically comprise one or 
more warehouses along with vehicles: A single mule-drawn 
cart, a fleet of ships or something in between. In the latter 
case, the retail outlet can range from a market stall to a large 
trading post.

serviCe
Service businesses tend to be less focused on assets and 
material goods than other business types are. Instead, they 
specialize in offering labour of various skill levels.

The value of labour follows the same laws of supply and 

demand as the rest of the economy, meaning that when 
workers are in short supply even unskilled labour can be 
valuable, and skilled labour even more so. Successful service-
oriented businesses capitalize on this by providing specialized 
services where they are most in demand.

Examples of service business are inns and hostels, 
messengers, cartage, security, stables, animal training, 
brothels, colleges and universities, guilds, theatres, and 
mercenaries, just to name a handful of possibilities.

Remember that the rules laid out here are intended to 
reflect ongoing businesses where an investment has been 
made and a return is expected. The income of individual 
service providers such as the lone mercenary, bounty hunter, 
or thespian is better gauged by the lifestyle expense rules 
given in the Player’s Handbook, or by the dungeon master’s 
own determination if the task forms a part of an adventure.
The assets of service businesses tend to comprise those 

tools specific to the individual labourer’s occupation. 
A craftsperson requires the tools of her trade, where a 
mercenary requires armour and weaponry. 

7

A GOING CONCERNinvestment

Where a business’s type indicates the 

nature of its operations, a business’s 
investment is an indicator of its value. It 
is an amount of money that represents the 
sum of the worth of the business’s assets, 
including land, buildings, vehicles, tools, 

equipment, and inventory. In short, the investment is a 
representative measure of everything that gives the business 
the ability to operate and generate revenue, and thus – with a 
little luck – produce a return on that investment.

One important point to remember is that investment 
encompasses a going concern’s entire ability to generate a 
return. Flipping through the pages of the Player’s Handbook, 
one would be forgiven for noting that the price of a longship 
is 10,000 gold, and from that assuming the investment 
needed to start up a shipping company with a longship is 
also 10,000 gold. Remember though that the ship requires a 
crew to man it, food and supplies for the crew, cargo to sell, 
working capital for docking fees and bribes, and so on.

Because of this, the gross investment value of a business 
is almost always significantly more than the direct cost of its 
major assets.

This is true whether the assets are ships, wagons, 
buildings of some sort, mines, quarries, or perhaps even 
a forest or some other source of raw materials. Whatever 
the obvious elements of the business are, be sure that there 
are always many other necessary parts included in the gross 
investment value.

While investment is an abstract concept, it does give some 
guidance as to the likely relative size and characteristics of a 
business. Virtually any size investment can be suitable to any 
type of business. Certainly, some may take a bit more effort 
to explain. A farm worth 100,000 gold would need to be vast 
and amazingly fertile. A gold mine worth only 50 gold might 
be just a small panning operation in a promising creek.

One final point on the topic of investment is that a single 

investment can, in some circumstances, comprise several 
businesses at once. This option is best employed when one or 
more owners invest in several similar businesses located near 
one another. For example, if a player character owns a dozen 
farms surrounding a single town, it makes sense to treat 

that as one large investment rather than twelve small ones. If 
the businesses are significantly different from each other, for 
instance if a player character owns a farm, a blacksmith, and 
a cooperage (a workshop that manufactures barrels) all in the 
same town, it would be best to treat that as three separate 
investments. Similarly, if a player character owns a dozen 
farms all a fair distance away from one another, it too would 
be preferable to treat those as separate investments.

shared investments
A business need not be owned by a single person. An 
inherited business could have more than one heir; a new 
business could be started by several partners pooling their 
resources; an existing business could accept a new investor to 
help fund an expansion.

In any event that a business has multiple owners, use the 
rules provided in this supplement to account for the entire 
business as a whole, single investment exactly as if there was 
a single owner. When monthly profit or loss is calculated, 
special rules apply to divide the results among the owners 
(see “Profit and Loss Considerations for Shared Investments 
and Business Combinations” on page 24).

Business ComBinations
Not all businesses fit neatly into one of the four business 
types listed above. Consider the typical inn with a dining 
room or bar attached. The inn would be considered a 
service, while a dining room would be manufacturing, 
and a bar would probably be resale. Another common 
example is a resource business that also performs some basic 
manufacturing processes, such as a mine that also smelts 
ore into useable metals or a forestry operation that also 
mills tree trunks into lumber. In these cases, there are three 
options available.

The first option is to divide the business into smaller 
businesses of different types. This works best for larger 
investments where the individual pieces are worth at least 
several thousand gold on their own. A large inn could 
represent a 25,000-gold investment, but if that investment 
includes a dining room and bar, it might make sense to treat 
it as three businesses, perhaps a 12,000-gold inn, 8,000-gold 
dining room, and 5,000-gold bar. Using this option, each 

Investment Examples

Investment 
Value

Resource

Manufacturing

100 gp

Share of a small farm

Outdoor one-man smithy

500 gp

2,500 gp

10,000 gp

Salt mine suitable for 
supplying a town or small city
Local forestry and lumber 
operation
Large farm with abundant 
fresh water and pastureland

100,000 gp

Mid-sized gold mine

Modest workshop

Foundry or similar mid-sized 
workshop
Simple mill, water- or wind-
powered
Complex water-powered mill 
such as a fulling mill

500,000 gp

Rich gemstone mine

Large shipyard

Resale
Market stall with small 
inventory of local goods
Several mule-drawn carts 
with drivers and cargo
Small to mid-sized shop with 
basic inventory
Larger trading post with 
diverse inventory
Pair of longships with crews 
and trade goods
Trio of large galleys, crewed 
and loaded with goods

Service

Small rat-catching service

Traveling theatre troupe

Well-equipped stable

Guildhall capable of serving a 
good-sized city
Large inn with kitchen and 
stables

Small mercenary army

8

A GOING CONCERNbusiness would be accounted for separately even though they 
are physically attached.

The second option is to treat the business as a single 

entity and simply choose the business type that most closely 
reflects the business’s operations. If the business is a mine 
with a smelting operation attached, it might be reasonable to 
declare that the mine is the larger and more significant part 
of the business, and hence the entire operation should be 
simply treated as a resource business without worrying about 
the relatively small manufacturing component.

The third and final option is to characterize the business 
as being of mixed type, such as resource/manufacturing or 
service/manufacturing/resale. This works best in situations 
where a business is roughly equal parts the different types 
and cannot be easily subdivided and accounted for separately 
because the components are too intertwined. The best way 
to judge whether business components are not suitable to 
be accounted for as separate businesses is to imagine what 
would happen if one of them went bankrupt. If the bar 
in an inn went bankrupt, the inn could likely continue to 
operate. On the other hand, if a mine went bankrupt could 
the attached smelting operation continue? Likely not if 
the smelter’s entire input was from a mine that no longer 
functions. Using this option, the risk factor of the business 
becomes the average of each of the types included (see “The 
Risk Factor” on page 11). 

Buying a Business
Purchasing all or part of an existing operation is quick and 
easy, but there is a premium to pay for this convenience. The 
current owners will expect to be compensated not just for 
the value of the business’s assets, but also for the earnings 
potential the business has demonstrated. See the discussion 
of goodwill on page 21 for more on this concept, but in 
the meantime it’s enough to know that the purchase price 
of an existing business is equal to the value of the gross 
investment plus 10%. (This calculation is more complex for 
player characters selling a business (see page 21 again), but 
when purchasing an investment from a non-player character, 
a simple 10% mark-up is used).

This 10% premium is not reflected in the gross investment 

value of the business once it has been purchased. For 
example, purchasing an existing business with an investment 
value of 2,000 gold pieces would cost 2,200 gold pieces, but 
the gross investment value of the business is 2,000 gold, 
not 2,200 gold.

starting From sCratCh
An advantage to buying into an existing concern, or fully 
purchasing one outright, is that it avoids the complication 
of needing to construct the business from scratch. In many 
cases, building from scratch might not be possible to avoid, 
particularly if the business is of an unusual nature or located 
somewhere one wouldn’t normally find a business operating.
The general assumption is that construction proceeds at 
a pace of 150 gold pieces worth of investment per day. At 
this rate, a 1,000-gold piece investment would take 7 days to 
complete. It is possible to increase the speed of construction. 
This requires the use of an expansion management action 
(see “Management Actions” on page 16). This is the only 
time a management action can be used prior to the business 
beginning actual operations.

Realistically speaking, there are many other considerations 

beyond construction when starting a business. Staff need 
to be hired and trained; inventory and tools need to be 
purchased. For many businesses, there is also a lengthy 
operational process to conduct in order to make goods 
saleable. Consider a tannery, where animal hides may need 
to be soaked in tanning pits for a year or more before being 
ready to be used in leather goods. Other examples include 
almost anything in the agricultural industry: Raising animals 
and growing crops takes anywhere from a season to a 
number of years – you can’t just build a farmhouse and a 
barn and expect to take your products to sell at the market 
the next day.

Because of the staggering variety of businesses, no set 

assumptions on start-up time are set beyond the basic 
assumptions on construction time given above. It is within 
the dungeon master’s purview to rule that additional time 
must be spent on business operations before revenue 
starts coming in; however, for the sake of abstraction this 
additional time can normally be ignored. It can be assumed, 
for example, that a new business acquires saleable inventory 
wholesale to start its sales process prior to its own inventory 
being ready. Or perhaps the business engages in other, 
shorter term activities outside of its normal operations to 
help kick off its revenue streams. In any event, the process 
of starting a business should be handled in the spirit of the 
game: Fun and rewarding, not burdensome and punishing.

9

A GOING CONCERNCut-throat cultures gain access to the 

espionage management action (see “Management 
Actions” on page 16).

Front
One of the few examples of a business for which the primary 
goal is not profit, a front is intended to conceal some other 
activity behind a mask of routine commerce. This could be 
an underground political resistance movement, a temple to 
an outlawed religion, a devil-worshiping conspiracy, or any 
other organization that needs to keep its existence a secret.

Due to their lack of focus on actually running a successful 

business, fronts gain no special abilities or benefits related 
specifically to business; however, any employees of the front 
gain advantage on stealth rolls made to disguise their true 
activities as mundane operations of the business.

innovative
In many ways the opposite of traditional is the innovative 
culture. A business with an innovative culture values 
progress and finding new and better ways to do things, 
whether it’s a manufacturing process or a sales technique.
Having an innovative culture gives a business access to 
the invention management action (see “Management 
Actions” on page 16).

none
It’s entirely possible for a business to have no culture at all. 
Having no culture imparts no particular benefit, however. In 
practice, the only businesses that operate without a culture 
are those that are in the process of changing their culture.

traditional
The most common culture in most campaigns, traditional 
cultures value how business is done and who it is done 
with over profits. A business that has been handed 
down from generation to generation is likely to have 
a traditional culture, but even newer businesses can be 
traditional-minded.

Because they are generally seen as low-risk, traditional 

businesses pay only half normal interest costs (see 
“Interest” on page 19).

trendy
When trade caravans and merchant vessels travel to distant 
lands, they inevitably carry with them goods and ideas that 
become popular for the simple reason of their novelty. 
Businesses with a trendy culture latch onto these novelties 
in order to profit from them. The difference between trendy 
and innovative is that trends aren’t about doing anything 

Business Culture
Business Culture

Not every tavern is run the same way. Nor 

every blacksmith, guildhall, copper mine, or any 
other sort of business. To help simulate this, 
each business has a culture which provides an 
ability or other benefit not enjoyed by 
businesses with different cultures. When 

starting a business, select one of the following cultures. If 
purchasing an existing business, the DM can choose what 
culture the business has, if any. The table below summarizes 
the different cultures available and their benefit, if any.

Business Cultures

Culture
Criminal
Cut-throat
Front
Innovative
None
Traditional
Trendy

Benefit
Sabotage action
Espionage action
Disguise advantage
Invention action
No benefit
Interest discount
Marketing advantage

Criminal
Some businesses are ethical, some are unethical, and some 
are simply criminal. A criminal culture will break any law 
in order to defraud a customer, undermine a competitor, 
or otherwise break the rules in their own favour. In most 
societies, such a business would quickly find itself at best 
with no customers and at worst on the receiving end of 
the local justice system. In a less lawful society, however, 
a criminal culture may be the norm and caveat emptor the 
general rule.

A business with a criminal culture has access to the 
sabotage management action (see “Management Actions” 
on page 16). 

Cut-throat
For some businesses, morality is of little concern when 
profits are at stake. This is known as having a cut-throat 
culture. Customers are not always comfortable patronizing 
businesses that wantonly display a lack of ethics, so most 
cut-throat cultures try to present themselves as being 
traditional or some other culture to help obfuscate their 
shadier dealings.

10

A GOING CONCERNbetter, they’re just about doing things differently. And once 
that difference becomes ordinary, the trendy business just 
goes out and find a new trend.

A trendy business gives its investors advantage when 
they take the marketing action (see “Management Actions” 
on page 16). 

Changing Culture
It has been said that it takes years to build a reputation and 
only seconds to destroy it. For the purpose of these rules, 
business culture can be changed in three months. (If your 
campaign world doesn’t use ‘months’, substitute a similar 
length of time appropriate to the world you’re playing 
in). This represents the space of time required for the 
change of direction from management to be adopted by the 
business’s employees and, if applicable, recognized by the 
business’s customers.
Once the decision has been made to change a business’s 
culture, the existing culture is immediately removed. While 
the business has no culture, it loses access to any abilities 
or benefits it received from its former culture. For three 
months the business operates with no culture. On the fourth 
month the business adopts its new culture and gains access to 
whatever ability or benefit that culture imparts.

the risk FaCtor

the risk FaCtorNot every business venture is a profitable 

one, and even successful businesses have bad 
months. It takes someone with an 
entrepreneurial spirit to be willing to risk the 
perils of investment. Even among entrepreneurs 
there are varying appetites for risk, though. 
While the potential for loss exists in all businesses, some 
types of business are inherently riskier – trading the 
potential for great losses for the chance at great profit. The 
metric for this potential is called the risk factor. It functions 
as a coefficient, magnifying the profits or losses for riskier 
businesses.

Risk Factors

Business Type
Service
Resource
Manufacturing
Resale

Risk Factor
x1
x2
x3
x4

Resale businesses have the highest risk factor. This is 
because they carry significant inventory that they have to 
purchase. If that inventory is lost at sea, stolen by bandits, 
spoils due to age, or simply needs to be sold at a loss, the 
investment suffers; however, resale businesses also have a 
chance for large profits if they find buyers willing to pay a 
premium for goods in short supply.

Manufacturing operations are less risky, as their 
inventories tend to be relatively smaller and aren’t 
transported as often or as far. Resource operations are 
less risky still, and service businesses the least risky 
because they have little inventory and low expenses 
in general. At the same time, labour rarely sells for a 
premium, and so service businesses have a smaller 
chance to produce large returns. 
The table below summarizes the risk factors for 
different business types.
For businesses with a mixed type, the risk 
factor should be averaged among the types 
included. The resulting risk factor should 
then be rounded up to the nearest whole 

number. A service/ manufacturing 
business would have a risk factor of (1 + 
3) ÷ 2, or 2. A service/ manufacturing/ 
resale business would have a risk 
factor of (1 + 3 + 4) ÷ 3, which 
rounds up to 3.
Risk factor is used when 
calculating a business’s return 
on investment (see “Return on 
Investment” on page 21).

11

A GOING CONCERNthe business owner completes these tasks is left somewhat 
open. Generally, it’s best to determine random events early 
in the month so that corrective management actions can be 
planned, if necessary. That’s not to say that all random events 
occur on the first of the month. Once the occurrences of the 
month are known, it can all be considered when developing 
a descriptive narrative that helps give life to the mechanics 
given here (see page 13 for more thoughts on narratives 
for business activity).

market environment
One of the sad truths of running a business is that many 
factors that greatly influence the business’s success are 
completely outside of the owner’s control. To simulate this, 
for every month a business operates four aspects of the 
market environment are randomly determined with a 3d6 
die roll. These aspects of the environment are economic, 
political, strife and competition.

Consult the table above to determine the condition of each 

market aspect for the month.

Market conditions normally change slowly. It would 
be unusual for the economy to be terrible one month, 
outstanding the next, and back to terrible the month after. 
The roll modifier column is used to simulate this. This 
modifier doesn’t affect the current month’s roll, instead it 
is used to modify the following month’s determination of 
market conditions. For example, if the economic market 
condition is propitious in one month, the next month’s check 
for the economic market condition is made with a +4 bonus.

It should be noted that these market conditions are 

determined independently for every business, even 
businesses that are located close to each other. At first 
that might seem odd. One could expect these conditions 
to be ubiquitous, that a shop on Maple Street wouldn’t be 
experiencing a booming economy while a shop on Beech 
Avenue suffers in a recession. The reason each business rolls 
market environment independently is that the conditions 
are meant to reflect the market relative to that specific 
business, not relative to the market as a whole. It’s possible, 
for example, for the iron horseshoe industry to be booming 
while the linen tablecloths industry stagnates. More detail is 
provided for each aspect of the market environment below.

eConomiC
If currency is the life’s blood of the economy, this market 
condition determines the heart rate. The economic condition 
reflects how much available money people have to spend 
and how optimistic they are that they can afford to spend 
it, rather than saving it for some unforeseen need. It also 

operating a Business

operating a BusinessAll businesses are assumed to be in 

continuous operation, with the consideration 
that shops are only open for normal business 
hours, that caravans set up camp for the night 
and so forth. The concept of a going concern 
is that other than for normal interruptions, 

a business is an enduring operation, one that functions 
independently of the player character or player characters 
who own it.

While businesses operate continuously, generating 
revenue and incurring expenses on an ongoing basis, 
the results of business activity are accounted for using a 
monthly cycle.

the monthly Business CyCle
Every business has an operating cycle. This cycle comprises 
all the activity and time needed to gather materials, prepare 
those materials for sale, conduct the sales process and begin 
again. The specifics vary from one business to another. For 
resource businesses, the procurement of materials occupies 
most of the cycle, where preparation for sale and sales 
processes are generally simple and quick. In resale businesses 
the opposite is true, with the process of selling goods being 
their principal effort. The time it takes to cycle through 
these operations also varies. A bakery could conduct all of 
its manufacturing and sales in a single day, starting each 
day fresh with zero inventory. An iron mine might spend 
many days building up an inventory of ore, only selling once 
massive quantities have been accumulated.

To smooth out these differences and allow for uniformity 

in determining business results, a month is used as the 
common denomination of time to meaningfully aggregate 
profits or losses. Every month that the business is in 
operation, a combination of market environment, 
management actions and random events determines the 
relative success of the business in that month.

Every month, a business owner will generally do 

the following:

 » Determine the market environment;
 » Check for random events;
 » Declare and resolve any management actions;
 » Calculate all the impacts to the business’s ROI;
 » Determine the closing gross investment;
 » Calculate the net profit or loss.

These steps are given a detailed treatment starting on 
page 21. The specific timing during the month as to when 

12

A GOING CONCERNMarket Environment

3d6
16 or higher
13-15
9-12
6-8
5 or lower

Condition
Propitious
Favourable
Neutral
Unfavourable
Adverse

ROI Impact
+3%
+1%
none
-1%
-3%

Roll Modifier
+4
+2
none
-2
-4

measures how much wealth is flowing into a local economy, 
whether from trade surpluses as merchant caravans roll into 
the area, nobles lavishly spending, or adventurers enjoying 
the sudden wealth that occupation sometimes bestows.

politiCal
Governmental policy can have a dramatic effect on business. 
The two most obvious examples are taxes and trade tariffs, 
which can directly impact the bottom line of all businesses. 
The political climate goes beyond these examples, though. 
Governments often intervene in culture and commerce with 
sumptuary laws, property use restrictions, asset seizures 
under martial law or eminent domain laws, trade embargoes, 
and a vast number of other possibilities.

striFe
Nothing puts more of a sudden damper on commerce than a 
condition so dangerous people refuse to engage in commerce 
out of fear for their own safety. Strife is a catch-all market 
condition for such events as wars, extreme weather, riots, 
rampant crime, or any condition that can likely be considered 
imminently dangerous.

It’s important to keep in mind how different situations 

relate to a given business, however. A war is likely to 
dampen trade and reduce harvests, but the weapon 
and armour smiths suddenly see their profits increase 
enormously. Monsoon season might flood the local mine, but 
the roadside inns do a roaring trade with people desperate to 
get off the muddy roads and into a warm bed. 

Competition
If there are profits to be had, one business will rarely 
be left alone to take them all for itself. Inevitably, other 
entrepreneurs step in with ventures of their own and a 
competitive environment results. This is great for the 
consumer, as competition tends to increase selection and 
quality while driving down prices, but it’s not so great for the 
business owner watching someone steal his customers.

developing a narrative For market Conditions
From a strictly mechanical perspective, it isn’t necessary to 
describe the market conditions a business is experiencing any 
further than the propitious-through-adverse scale given in 
the market condition chart. From a role-playing perspective 
however, and to integrate the business more fully into the 
ongoing events of the campaign, it can be advantageous to 
build a narrative.

Once the market conditions for a month have been rolled, 
imagine them relative to the operations of the business. All 
conditions are relative, so a propitious condition can mean 
something very different for different businesses. Consider 
the following example:

A copper mine operates in the hills a few miles from 
a mid-size town. In a given month, the mine’s economic 
condition is favourable, political is propitious, strife is 
unfavourable, and competition is adverse. One possible 
narrative for this is that commerce in town is strong and 
demand for copper is good, aided by the fact that the local 
baron has eliminated taxes and tariffs on metal production 
in order to stimulate the industry. So far, it’s looking like a 
good month. Unfortunately, bandit raids have been delaying 
shipments of ore to the smelter in town. Also, the baron’s 
incentives seem to be working too well as a rival mine just 
started operating not far away.

In the next month, the economic situation is unchanged 

at favourable. The political situation drops to neutral 
while strife drops to adverse and competition improves to 
unfavourable. The demand for copper is as strong as ever, 
but it seems the baron had been losing too much revenue and 
has re-instituted normal taxes and tariffs. The adverse strife 
condition indicates that those bandit raids have gotten a lot 
worse, seriously hindering access to the smelter. That rival 
mine seems to be struggling as well… could it be that the 
bandits are in their employ?

See “Adventure Hooks” on page 27 for more 
ideas on tying business ownership to the player 
characters’ adventures.

13

A GOING CONCERN14

A GOING CONCERNrandom events 
random events 

Unexpected occurrences can have a 

significant impact on a business’s 
performance, for good or for ill. Every month 
that a business is operating, roll 1d6. If the 
result is a 6, a random event has occurred. 
Roll 2d6 and consult the random events table 

to see which specific event.

Random Events

2d6
2-3
4-5
6
7
8
9-10
11-12

Event
Devaluation
Malfunction
Cancelled contract
Theft
Illness
Fair
Appreciation

devaluation
The assets of the business have decreased in value. This 
might be due to changes in land value, increasing cost of 
replacing tools and equipment, obsolescence of the business’s 
products or services, or some other cause. Whatever the 
reason, the business is now worth less than it was previously. 
Roll 2d6 and decrease the gross business investment by 
that percentage. For example, on a roll of 8, a 1,000-gold 
investment would become a 920-gold investment. This 
change takes place prior to calculating return on investment 
for the month.

malFunCtion
Something has gone wrong with one of the business’s critical 
assets. Most likely this is a piece of equipment, a tool, or 
possibly a building structure, but whatever broke is going to 
cost the business money until it can be repaired or replaced. 
A Malfunction reduces the return on investment of the 
business by 5%. This loss persists every month thereafter. 
If this event is rolled again, the return on investment 
adjustment is added again, making the return on investment 
adjustment a net negative 10%. This continues if further 
malfunction events occur, with no limit to how large the 
negative adjustment to the business’s returns can become. 
Successful completion of the maintenance management 
action removes these adjustments (see “Management 
Actions” on page 16).

CanCelled ContraCt
The business has lost a major customer, either due to a 
formal cancellation of a contract or some other loss of a 
prior business relationship. This reduces the return on 
investment of the business by 5%. This loss persists every 
month thereafter. If this event is rolled again, the return on 
investment adjustment is added again, making the return on 
investment adjustment a net negative 10%. This continues 
if further cancelled contracts events occur, with no limit to 
how large the negative adjustment to the business’s returns 

can become. Successful completion of the negotiation 
management action removes these adjustments (see 
“Management Actions” on page 16).

theFt
The business has fallen victim to thieves. All businesses must 
eventually deal with the shoplifters, fraudsters, and robbers 
who make a living taking what belongs to others, but this 
theft was significant enough to visibly reduce the concern’s 
profits for the month. Return on investment is decreased by 
5% for this month only.

illness
A contagious sickness has spread among the employees 
of the business. It probably isn’t fatal, but it does reduce 
the capabilities of the workers to the bare minimum. No 
management actions may be performed by the business 
in the month where an illness event occurs. In the event a 
management action was already in progress, it ends without 
taking effect.

Fair
Fairs attract merchants, artisans, and most importantly 
customers from a wide area. Any business in the area when 
a fair takes place can be sure to benefit from the increased 
activity, as the festive atmosphere and exotic goods entice 
buyers and loosen purse strings. A fair increases the 
economic market condition by two grades, to a maximum 
of propitious, in the current month only (although the 
+4 roll modifier to the next month’s economic market 
condition likely extends the benefit of a fair beyond the 
current month).

appreCiation
This event is identical to devaluation, except that 
circumstances have conspired to increase the invested value 
of the business rather than decrease it. The reasons for 
this are similar to those listed for devaluation, simply with 
the effect of being beneficial rather than harmful to the 
business’s value. Roll 2d6 and increase the gross business 
investment by that percentage. On a roll of 11, for example, 
a business with a gross investment value of 1,000 gold would 
become a 1,110-gold piece business. This change takes place 
prior to calculating return on investment for the month. 

Adding Percentages
Throughout these rules, many possible adjustments to return on 
investment are given. This is typically shown as a plus or minus 
to a percentage, such as +2% or -1%. These adjustments are 
intended to be incremental or decremental to the whole integer 
value of the percentage they modify, not literal percentage-
based adjustments.

For example, a base ROI of 10% that is adjusted by +2% is 
properly calculated as 12%, not as 10.02%. Similarly, an ROI of 
15% modified by a -1% ROI impact becomes 14%, not 14.99%.

15

A GOING CONCERNmanagement aCtions
management aCtions

A business owned by a player character 

operates whether she is around or not by 
virtue of the fact that it is an independent 
going concern. The advantage to the player 
character actually being around to run the 
business instead of letting the employees 

take care of everything is that a player character is capable of 
taking management actions to help boost the profitability of 
the business.

Possible management actions are listed on the 

management actions table.

Taking a management action requires the owner to make 

an ability check. The specific ability for each management 
action is listed on table 6. The base DC for all management 
actions is 30. Every day (minimum of 8 hours) spent on the 
action reduces the DC by 1, to a minimum DC of 5. The 
ability check is always made after the time has been invested, 
never before or during. 

A business can only attempt one management action at a 

time. If the business has more than one owner, one of the 
owners can use the help action to give the player character 
attempting the management action advantage on her roll; 
however, the helper must spend the same or a greater 
amount of time on the management action as the player 
character making the roll. Attempting management actions 
or helping another attempt a management action is restricted 
to player characters who own at least 10% of the business’s 
total investment.

Time invested in management actions can carry over 
from month to month; that is, a player character could 
spend the last 5 days of a month working on a management 
action, then continue spending another 10 days in the next 
month in order to make the management action check with 
a DC of 15. The time spent on management actions must 
be contiguous – if any day passes without the management 
action being worked on, the management action ability check 
must be made at that point or else the count of days spent on 
the action starts over. The result of the management action 
always effects the month in which the management action 
is completed.

Under some circumstances, the dungeon master may 
increase or decrease this DC. For example, if a business 

attempts the same management action month after month, 
the dungeon master could rule that such repeated attempts 
have a diminishing effectiveness and increase the DC to 
compensate, or simply disallow the action.

Refer to the management action checks table to gauge the 

results of the management action. 

The descriptions of the different kinds of management 

actions below detail the specific outcomes for each 
type of result.

ContraCt laBour
The contract labour action allows an investor to bring in 
a skilled worker to perform management actions on her 
behalf. This worker acts like a consultant, working alongside 
the business owner, providing guidance in areas the owner 
lacks expertise.

In order to take the contract labour action, select any other 
management action for the consultant to perform (assuming 
the action is allowed by the business’s culture). That action 
is carried out as normal, with the owner choosing how 
many days to spend on the action and an ability check being 
made to determine the success or failure of the attempt. 
The difference is that with the contract labour action, the 
ability check is made using the consultant’s ability score 
instead of the owner’s. This ability score is assumed to be 
16 (for a +3 bonus on the ability check). Since the owner 
is considered to be helping the consultant, the check is also 
made with advantage.

The only drawback to using the contract labour action is 
cost: For every day the consultant works on the requested 
management action, the business must pay 3 gold pieces. 
This cost is paid at the end of the action, in the month the 
ability check is made, irrespective of the outcome of the 
check. The total cost is subtracted from the month’s profit 
(or added to the month’s loss).

Example: A flour mill is in need of maintenance, but 
the owner of the mill, Thurg the Thick, has doubts about 
his odds of successfully carrying out an Intelligence-based 
maintenance action. Thurg instead takes the contract labour 
action, requesting the hired consultant to oversee the 
maintenance. He hires the consultant for 15 days. When the 
management action check is made, it is against DC 15 using 
the consultant’s Intelligence of 16, with advantage. The mill’s 
return on investment for the month will be reduced by the 
45-gold consultant’s fee (15 days times 3 gold per day).

Management Actions

Management 
Action
Contract labour
Espionage
Expansion
Invention
Maintenance
Marketing
Negotiation
Sabotage
Training

Ability
Special
Wisdom
Intelligence
Intelligence
Intelligence
Charisma
Charisma
Wisdom
Wisdom

Effect
Substitute management action ability score
Improves competitive environment
Build a new or expand an existing business
Improves investment value
Reduces malfunctions
Improves ROI
Reduces cancelled contracts
Improves competitive environment
Grants advantage on management actions

16

A GOING CONCERNIf an expansion check is failed, the investment rate slows 
to 100 gold per day. If the result is a catastrophic failure, the 
project has been so mismanaged that the rate of investment 
drops to zero – no progress has been made.

This management action can also be used in the 

construction of a new business (see “Starting from Scratch” 
on page 9). Keep in mind that there is no inherent 
minimum or maximum number of days this action can be 
attempted over, so it might be advantageous to break up the 
action over a number of separate attempts to minimize the 
risk of losing significant time to a catastrophic failure.

As previously mentioned, expansion management action 

checks are made using Intelligence.

invention
By today’s standards, where products are obsolete within 
months and new advancements are announced daily, 
the rate of progress in a medieval economy would seem 
astonishingly slow. Still, technology does march on at a 
measured pace and businesses that focus on improving 
their products and processes can benefit greatly. Only a 
business with an innovative culture can attempt an invention 
management action.

When a business owner attempts an invention action, she 
makes an Intelligence ability check. If the result is a success, 
a meaningful advancement has been made, improving the 
business in a measurable way. This is simulated by increasing 
the size of the business’s gross investment by 2%. Should the 
result be an outstanding success, the increase is instead 4%. 
For example, a 1,000-gold piece investment value would 

Management Action Checks

Ability Check
Exceed DC by 5 or 
more
Meet or exceed DC
Fail to meet DC
Fail by 5 or more

Result

Outstanding success

Success
Failure
Catastrophic failure

If 3 gold pieces per day is too steep a price, a consultant 
can be hired for 2 gold per day, but his ability score is only 14 
for the purpose of management actions. At 1 gold per day, a 
consultant with an ability score of 12 can be hired.

espionage
Most people think of spies as the agents of military or 
governmental organisations, but industrial espionage 
has existed for almost as long. Spying on competitors 
can have a number of benefits, including learning of 
marketing or expansion plans, discovering the identity of 
backers or silent partners, and uncovering secret recipes, 
manufacturing techniques, trade routes, and customer 
lists. Because of the ethical implications of spying, only a 
business with a cut-throat culture may conduct an espionage 
management action.

A successful espionage action improves the competition 

market condition by one grade (unfavourable becomes 
neutral, neutral becomes favourable, and so forth). An 
outstanding success increases the competition market 
condition by two grades. On a failed check there is no 
impact, but on a catastrophic failure the information 
gathered is misleading and the competition market condition 
worsens by two grades. This effect lasts only a single month 
(although the bonus or penalty to the subsequent month’s 
market environment rolls can prolong the benefits or 
penalties associated with attempting espionage). Note that 
the best possible market condition is propitious and the 
worst possible is adverse, irrespective of the outcome of an 
espionage action.

Espionage actions are resolved using a Wisdom 

ability check.

expansion
Most successful businesses will eventually want to grow. 
Such growth is represented by an increase in the total 
invested value of that business. Added investment requires 
the oversight and expenditure of funds of the owner. The 
base amount of investment that can be added to a business 
is equal to 150 gold pieces per day. This represents the time 
needed for new construction as well as all related activity like 
training new staff, acquiring new land, expanding inventory, 
and so forth.

While time must be spent on the expansion action in order 

to grow an investment at the 150-gold base rate, no ability 
check is required. It is possible to expand more rapidly by 
making an Intelligence check. On a successful check, the 
rate of expansion increases to 400 gold per day. With an 
outstanding success, the expansion rate increases to 1,000 
gold per day. This reflects the player character’s ability to 
oversee larger and more complex construction processes.

17

A GOING CONCERNModifying Rate Percentages for Different Calendars

Throughout these rules, percentage rates are used for the 
calculation of return on investment and interest expense. These 
rates are presented in all cases as annual rates. (This is why 
calculations for interest expense and ROI require you to divide by 
12 – it reduces the annual amount down to a monthly amount). 
Annual rates are used because they’re easily understood: In 
the real world, if you’re given a percentage rate it will almost 
invariably be an annual rate.

This works well in real life, and it works well in a Dungeons & 
Dragons campaign set in the Forgotten Realms. In Faerûn, the 
year is also 365 days, divided into 12 months roughly analogous 
to a real calendar (for purposes of accounting for a business in 
the Forgotten Realms, ignore any special calendar days that fall in 
between months).

However, if your campaign takes place in a setting with a 
different sort of calendar, these assumptions may not work as 
well. A different setting could, for example, have a year that’s 
only 200 days long, divided into five months of 40 days each. 
Or it might not have months at all. A world with no moon, for 
instance, would likely have the year divided into seasons or some 
other grouping of days rather than a period roughly analogous to 
the phases of the moon.

In cases where a campaign uses an unusual calendar, a little bit 

of math is needed to translate the rates provided in these rules 
into percentages usable in another setting.

Fundamental to this math is a simple concept – the 

percentages given herein are meant to represent 365 days of 
business activity, more or less. In order to translate them to 
another time frame, simply divide the rate by 365 and multiply it 
by whatever new period you desire.

For example, the world of Zurris has a smaller orbit than 
Earth. Its year is only 310 days long. Lacking a moon, the people 
of Zurris have never considered the concept of a month. Instead, 
they divide the year into the four seasons, each being 77 days 
long, with an extra day at mid-summer and mid-winter. The 
Zurran calendar divides these seasons into 11 weeks of 7 days 
each. For this example, many of the concepts used in these rules 
would not work properly. The basic concept of annual rates 
needs to be adjusted, as does the idea of accounting for business 
operations on a monthly basis.

To correct the annual percentage rates, use the rate of a single 

day as the basis. In this example, if the ROI was determined to 
be 14%, we could restate that as a daily rate of 0.0384% (14% 
÷ 365). Multiply that by the number of days in a Zurran year 
gives us a Zurran year equivalent rate of about 11.9% (0.0384% 
x 310). (If you’re comfortable doing so, you could do this in one 
step by multiplying 14% by 310/365).

We would use this conversion method when calculating ROI 
and interest expense, and we would also likely divide the year 
into something other than 12 periods, since the Zurran calendar 
doesn’t work that way. We could have 4 periods, corresponding 
to the seasons, 44 periods, corresponding to the weeks, or 
something in between. Whatever period you choose, substitute 
the number of periods in a year for 12 when calculating ROI 
or interest. For instance, if accounting for business on Zurris 
seasonally, you would convert the percentage rates as outlined 
above and divide the result by 4 to determine the result for a 
single season.

For the purpose of calculating goodwill, use the number of 
periods in a year multiplied by 2 in place of 24 in the goodwill 
calculation formula.

become a 1,020-gold investment on a successful invention 
action, or 1,040 gold pieces on an outstanding success.

On a failed invention check, no change to the business’s 
investment value occurs; however, on a catastrophic failure 
the invested value of the business instead decreases by 4% 
as a promising development turns out to actually leave the 
concern worse off than it was doing things the old way.

These changes to the investment value of the business are 
applied prior to calculating the return on investment for the 
month, so they have an immediate effect on profits or losses.
As mentioned above, invention management action checks 

are made using Intelligence. 

maintenanCe
All businesses must put some effort into keeping their assets 
in working condition. Retail outlets try to keep the shop 
presentable for customers; workshops keep the tools in 
working order, and so on. While a certain ambient level of 
care and attention to an investment’s assets is expected as 
part of routine operations, the maintenance management 
action involves a more directed and strenuous effort to keep 
the business functioning at peak efficiency, over and above 
what the staff are able to organize without direct input 
from the owner.

The effects of one or more malfunction random events 

that have already occurred are removed by a successful 
maintenance action; otherwise this action negates the next 
malfunction random event that occurs. An outstanding 
success has the same effects, but also negates one additional 
malfunction random event in the future.

A failed maintenance attempt has no effect – any future 
malfunction event occurs as normal and any current effects 
of malfunction events continue. A catastrophic failure 
indicates a maintenance action so poorly conducted it 
immediately results in a malfunction event occurring (see 
under “Random Events” on page 15).

Maintenance management action checks are made using 

Intelligence.

marketing
Marketing involves attempts to establish or improve a 
business’s relationship with its customers. This often takes 
the form of advertising for new customers or socializing with 
existing customers.

A successful marketing action directly improves the 
business’s return on investment by +2% in the month the 
action is completed. An outstanding success instead increases 
the return on investment by +4%.

If a marketing attempt results in a failure, no ROI change 
takes place. Unfortunately, if a catastrophic failure occurs the 
marketing effort was so botched it results in a -4% change to 
that month’s return on investment.

All marketing management action checks are made 

using Charisma.

negotiation
This action reflects the efforts of a business to set the 
best possible terms in its customer relations. This might 
be formal contract negotiations, re-establishing business 
relations with former clients, or simply haggling over prices.

18

A GOING CONCERNIf a business is suffering the effects of one or more 

Sabotage actions are resolved using a Wisdom 

cancelled contract random events, a successful negotiation 
action negates those effects; otherwise it negates the next 
cancelled contract random event that occurs. An outstanding 
success has the same effect, but also negates one additional 
cancelled contract random event in the future.

A failed negotiation attempt has no effect – any future 
cancelled contract event is not negated, and any current 
effects of a cancelled contract event continue uninterrupted. 
A catastrophic failure indicates a negotiation attempt so 
inept it immediately results in a cancelled contract event 
occurring (see under “Random Events” on page 15).
Negotiation management action checks are made 

using Charisma. 

saBotage
Unethical and illegal, sabotage can also be very effective. 
This action is only available to those businesses that 
have a criminal culture. The effects of sabotage have 
much in common with espionage – both involve directly 
undermining competitors. Where espionage is subtle, 
however, sabotage is anything but, instead attempting 
to directly harm competing businesses by damaging or 
destroying their assets.

A successful sabotage action improves the competition 

market condition by one grade (unfavourable becomes 
neutral, neutral becomes favourable and so forth). An 
outstanding success increases the competition market 
condition by three grades.

On a failed check the competition market condition 
is unchanged, but the political environment worsens by 
one grade. On a catastrophic failure, the political market 
condition worsens by three grades. This reflects the impact 
of fines and other sanctions, possibly including prison terms 
for employees, brought by local authorities in response to the 
business’s illegal activities. Note that the best possible market 
condition is propitious and the worst possible is adverse, 
irrespective of the outcome of a sabotage action.

ability check.

training
Time invested in developing the skills of employees is rarely 
wasted, as a skilled workforce is capable of handling all 
eventualities better than an amateurish one. A successful 
training management action gives the business advantage on 
the next management action attempted after the training is 
complete. An outstanding success instead gives advantage on 
the next 3 management actions attempted. 

A failed training action has no negative repercussions, 
but a catastrophic failure means the staff are so confused 
by what the owner attempted to teach them the business 
gets disadvantage on its next management action after the 
training is complete.

Training management actions are resolved using Wisdom 

as the relevant ability.

interest
interest

Under certain circumstances, a business 

may choose to (or be forced to) take on debt. 
This is most often the result of unprofitable 
operations, where business costs need to be 
covered by short term loans (see “Debt” on 
page 23). Under a capitalist economy, debt 

can also be used to purchase an investment (see “Feudal and 
Capitalist Economies” on page 26).

Any time a business begins a month with a debt balance, 
interest expense must be calculated. This expense reduces the 
net return on investment of the business in that month. To 
calculate interest expense, multiply total debt at the month’s 
beginning by 20% and divide by 12, rounding down to the 
nearest copper piece.

19

A GOING CONCERN20

A GOING CONCERNgoodwill

goodwillIn modern parlance, goodwill is the 

intangible value of a business over and above 
the direct value of its assets less its liabilities. 
The reason a business is typically worth 
more than the equity on its balance sheet is 
that when a business has a proven ability to 
generate a favourable return, that profitability is factored 
into the business’s value. Note that this is for purpose of the 
business’s selling value, not its investment value used for 
monthly return on investment calculations.

All businesses begin with a goodwill value of 10%. Every 

month take the business’s calculated ROI (see “Return on 
Investment” on page 21) and subtract the business’s 
current goodwill from it. Use ROI, not risk-weighted ROI. 
Divide the result by 24 and round down to a single decimal 
place. That result is added to the prior goodwill to determine 
the revised goodwill. Since this is done every month the 
business operates, the business’s goodwill value is always 
fluctuating based on its profitability from month to month.
For example, if a business with a goodwill value of 14% 

experiences an ROI of 18% in a particular month, the 
recalculation of goodwill would be:

( [18%-14%]÷24 )  +14%=14.2%

If the business had experienced an ROI lower than 
its current goodwill, its recalculated goodwill would 
decrease. For instance, if a business with a goodwill value 
of 14% experiences an ROI of 6%, the recalculation of 
goodwill would be:

( [6%-14%]÷24 )  +14%=13.7%
Goodwill is principally used in instances of divestiture (see 

“Divestiture” on page 23).

return on investment 
return on investment 

At the end of every month a business 

operates, the owner (or owners) must 
calculate the return on investment. If the 
business has more than one owner, any 
owner who is a player character performs this 
calculation on behalf of all owners. Multiple 
player character owners can decide among themselves who 
will calculate returns for the month. 

In the real world, to determine a business’s profitability 
you would prepare a financial statement showing revenues 
and expenses. Revenues include all the income generated 
by the different activities the business engages in. Expenses 
encompass all the costs the business incurs to operate. 
Some examples are wages for employees, rent, and the cost 
of materials and supplies, although there are many more 
possibilities. The difference between revenue and expense 
is the business’s  profit or loss. Return on investment, in 
the real world, is determined by dividing that profit or loss 
amount by the business’s total investment value to arrive at a 
percentage that describes the extent to which the business is 
succeeding and meeting its goals.

In these rules, we avoid the need to track the minutia of 
sales and purchases by determining the return on investment 

directly. Concepts like market environment, random 
events, and management actions combine to produce the 
ROI percentage, which is then multiplied by the business’s 
investment value to determine profit or loss. Return on 
investment and the resulting profit or loss are calculated 
using the 13 steps below.

step 1: Base return on investment
Base ROI is assumed to be 10% for all businesses. This is 
due to a simple fact: No one wants to invest in a business 
likely to generate a poor return, or worse yet to operate at 
a loss. Because of this, all business ventures are presumed 
to be capable of generating a modest yet healthy return of 
10% on their investment, subject to considerable variability 
as outlined in these rules. Note that the interest rate is an 
annual one – hence when calculating profit or loss for the 
month, the result is divided by 12.

step 2: market environment
Roll for the four elements of market environment: economic, 
political, strife and competition, as outlined on page 12. 
Remember that these market conditions may be altered by 
random events or management actions, which are covered in 
steps 3 and 4.

step 3: random events
Determine if a random event occurs, and if so, follow the 
instructions for the specific event as given on page 13.

step 4: management aCtions
For any management actions concluding this month, resolve 
their outcome as described beginning on page 16.

step 5: Finalize market environment
Revisit the market conditions determined in step 2 and 
modify them if necessary, based on the outcomes of 
steps 3 and 4.

step 6: Finalize investment
Determine the final gross value of the business’s investment. 
Remember that this is the gross investment representing 
all ownership, not just the ownership portion of the 
player character calculating the ROI. Random events and 
management actions can also modify the investment, so 
consider those as well if applicable.

step 7: Finalize return on investment
Sum the base ROI given in step 1 with the ROI impacts of 
the finalized market environment determined in step 5. Also, 
add any other ROI adjustments per the effects of random 
events and management actions, if applicable.

step 8: apply risk FaCtor
Multiply the finalized ROI determined in step 7 by the 
business’s risk factor to determine the risk-weighted return 
on investment.

step 9: determine gross return
Multiply the risk-weighted ROI from step 8, positive 
or negative, by the finalized gross investment total 
determined in step 6. Divide the result by 12 and round 

21

A GOING CONCERN 
monthly perFormanCe
monthly perFormanCe

Once the results of business for the 

month are known, it becomes necessary 
to take stock of the situation and make 
a judgement of the best path forward. 
Ideally, the business is successful, and 
operations will continue, but this isn’t 

always the case. The monthly performance of a business is 
defined as one of the concepts expanded on below: profit, 
reinvestment, debt, shrinkage, divestiture, or bankruptcy.

proFit
If business operations proceed as they should and the market 
conditions aren’t overly unfavourable, any business should be 
able to realize a profit. Profit is the default result of monthly 
operations – it’s the reason people start businesses in the first 
place. If the return on investment in a month is anything 
greater than zero, and interest and other costs don’t exceed 
gross returns, the monthly performance is profit. In this 
situation, the owner would pocket the profits for herself 
(or have them held for her until she returns) and continue 
business as usual in the next month.

When a business has more than a single owner, the profits 

need to be split among the owner group (see “Profit and 
Loss Considerations for Shared Investments and Business 
Combinations” on page 24).

reinvestment
When revenues are less than expenses, the result is a loss; 
if ROI is negative, this is what has happened. Hopefully this 
doesn’t happen often, but when it does the bills still need 
to be paid if business is going to continue. Reinvestment is 
often the best option in this case. This represents the owner 

down to the nearest copper piece to determine gross return 
on investment.

step 10: CalCulate interest
If the business carried any debt at the start of the month, 
calculate the interest expense as described on page 19.

step 11: determine net return
Reduce gross return by the amount of interest expense, as 
well as the amount of any other adjustments such as contract 
labour costs. This final amount is the business’s net return 
for the month.

step 12: determine monthly perFormanCe
Dependant on the net return, the monthly performance 
can be profit, reinvestment, debt, shrinkage, divestiture, or 
bankruptcy. See “Monthly Performance” on page 22 for a 
description of these results.

step 13: update Business sheet
The business sheet needs to be updated with the current 
state of the business after every month end (see “Appendix: 
The Business Sheet” on page 33). This is important as 
the results from one month directly influence the next 
month when it comes to rolling for market environment, 
and various other factors such as debt, goodwill, and 
management actions should be tracked as well.

22

A GOING CONCERNor owners stepping in with additional funds to ensure the 
business stays viable.

The amount of reinvestment needed is equal to the 

amount of the loss the business sustained in the month. If the 
net return for the month is a loss of 50 gold pieces, a 50-gold 
piece reinvestment is needed to keep the business running. 
Despite the name, it should be noted that reinvestment 
does not in any way change the gross investment value 
of the company – instead is stops that investment value 
from decreasing.

If the business has multiple owners, the cost of 

reinvestment should be split among them (see “Profit and 
Loss Considerations for Shared Investments and Business 
Combinations” on page 24).

One final consideration for reinvestment is the availability 

of funds. If the owner lacks the cash needed to pay for the 
reinvestment, this option is unavailable. Similarly, if the 
owner is absent (perhaps off on an adventure somewhere), 
she may not be able to contribute the funds needed to make 
this a viable option.

deBt
When funds for reinvestment aren’t available, the next 
best option may be to borrow funds on a short-term basis. 
Money lenders in a medieval economy tend to charge very 
high rates of interest by modern standards – but incurring 
some interest expense is often better than losing all or part of 
an investment.

Debt can also be used in combination with reinvestment 
or shrinkage. If monthly losses totalled 20 gold pieces, for 
instance, the owner could pay 10 out of pocket and take on 
10 gold pieces of debt to cover the remainder.

In general, debt is assumed to always be available. There 

is a limit to the amount money lenders are willing to 
extend, however, before the risk of the loan becomes too 
great: No business may carry debt in excess of its gross 
investment value. 

shrinkage
If reinvestment and debt are not available, or not desirable, 
the next option is shrinkage. This reflects the business being 
forced to pay its costs by selling off assets, shrinking the 
workforce, bartering with its own inventory, or some other 
means of keeping the business afloat by trading part of itself 
away. Using this option, the gross investment of the business 
decreases by the amount of the month’s losses.

divestiture
Divestiture is a fancy word for selling a business, or part 
of a business. An owner may sell for many reasons, such 
as to free up funds for some other venture or to stop the 
bleeding if ongoing losses are becoming unsustainable. Using 
this option, the owner sells off as much of the investment 
as she chooses, using the proceeds to pay the business’s 
losses. It’s worth noting that divestiture can occur even if 
the business is profitable – you can sell your business any 
time you choose.

The basic assumption is that an investment sells for its 
own investment value. Selling a 500-gold piece business, 
or a 500-gold piece portion of a larger business, should net 

Discounts and Personal Use
When the player characters run their own business, the 
temptation will often exist to make personal use of the assets 
and merchandise. A weapon shop offers an inviting inventory of 
goods for adventurers, for instance. An inn is a welcoming place 
to eat and rest for free. A mercenary outfit could provide hired 
swords to aid an adventuring party in their battles.

As a general rule, any use player characters make of businesses 

they own should be at the standard rates and prices as given in 
the PLAYER’S HANDBOOK and other supplements. It might seem 
strange that a character who owns a business can’t get a discount 
on its products, but there is a good reason for this.

The most important idea to consider regarding discounts is 
that the goods and services a business offers are not without 
cost to that business. Inventory costs money to stock, and 
employees providing services expect to be paid. Because of 
this, any free services or discounted goods would represent a 
direct diminishment of the business’s profits for that month. In 
other words, the players could take liberties with the products 
of their businesses, but the cost of such use would need to be 
subtracted from the gross profits of the business at month end 
anyhow, meaning that the net impact would be no savings at all. 
In a situation where the business has multiple owners this is even 
more serious as it would essentially mean the player character 
was stealing from his partners.

To avoid this complexity and the resulting negative 

implications, the rule therefore is that player characters pay for 
goods and services just like everyone else, irrespective of the 
investments they own.

you 500 gold pieces. The amount gained is reduced by the 
amount of any debt the business is carrying (assuming the 
debt is divested along with the business – if the business is 
only partially divested and retains all of its debt, the proceeds 
need not be reduced).

The divestiture amount also needs to be adjusted by 
the business’s current goodwill (see page 21 for detail 
on goodwill). Take the goodwill percentage, multiply it 
by the amount of investment being divested, and that 
amount (positive or negative) is added to the total proceeds 
of divestment.

For example, a 1,200-gold investment with 150 gold 

worth of debt and a 13% goodwill would calculate its 
selling value as:

1,200-150+(1,200×13%)=1,206 gold

BankruptCy
The final option, should all else fail, is to simply walk away. 
Using the bankruptcy option, the gross investment value of 
the business falls to zero and it ceases to exist.

For business combinations, generally no special provisions 

need be made for bankruptcy. If a single enterprise is being 
accounted for as separate businesses, for instance an inn with 
a dining room and bar, it’s entirely possible for one of the 
businesses to be profiting while the others are not. It’s even 
possible for one or more parts of the business to go bankrupt 
independently – the inn in question may have had to close 
down its rooms and kitchen due to lack of business, but the 
bar is still going strong.

23

A GOING CONCERNproFit and loss Considerations 
For shared investments and 
Business ComBinations
In any case where a business has multiple owners, there are 
only two changes to be made in applying these rules. First, 
any profit from the business is shared among the owners 
proportional to each owner’s share of the total investment.
 For example, a business with a total investment of 4,000 
gold is owned by three player characters: One has a 2,000-
gold piece investment and the others have 1,000 gold 
invested each. In a particular month, that business generates 
a profit of 50 gold pieces. The player character with 2,000 
gold invested would keep 25 of the 50 gold. The other two 
would keep 12 gold and 5 silver each.

Second, any loss incurred by the business must also be 
shared. When a shared investment suffers losses, the choice 
of reinvestment, debt, shrinkage, divestiture, or bankruptcy 
must be mutually agreed upon by all owners. In the case 
of reinvestment, each owner contributes according to her 
investment portion, exactly as is outlined above for the 
sharing of profits. In the case of shrinkage, each owner’s 
investment shrinks proportional to their ownership. In the 
case of divestiture, the proportion of proceeds and reduction 
in investment applied to each owner is similarly calculated 
relative to his or her share of the total investment.

24

A GOING CONCERNnew BaCkground – 
new BaCkground – 
Family Business
Family Business

You were born or adopted into a family 

that owned a small business. From a young age 
you worked alongside your parents, learning to 
run the business and always understanding that 
once you reached adulthood it would become 
your responsibility.

Skill Proficiencies: Insight, Persuasion
Tool Proficiencies: Either vehicles (land) or vehicles 
(water), one of your choice

Equipment: The deed to your business, a set of common 
clothes, and a belt pouch containing 10 gp

Feature: investment heir
As the heir to your family’s business, you begin the game 
with an investment valued at 100 gold pieces. This could 
be an entire business, albeit a modest one, or it could be a 
share of a larger concern. This starting investment can be in 
any type of business. Work with your DM to determine the 
appropriate sort of investment for the campaign.

suggested CharaCteristiCs
How your experiences have helped shape your outlook 
depends greatly on what sort of business you grew up in. 
Formative years spent in the depths of a salt mine produces 
a very different outlook than those spent behind the counter 
of a jewellery shop. One common characteristic of anyone 
growing up in a family business is a keen understanding of 
the importance of profit.

d8

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

Personality Trait
My manner of speaking makes it seem as though I’m always 
trying to sell something.
Adventuring is just another sort of business, and I know 
how to manage a business.
I trust a firm handshake more than a fancy contract.
I’m often embarrassed that I inherited my business instead 
of starting it myself.
I have a lifetime of experience in what I do, and I take 
great offense when someone questions my judgement on 
business matters.
No one can bargain a deal better than me.
I assume everyone wants to hear stories of the big sales I’ve 
made or famous customers I’ve served.
I treat everyone like a potential customer, no matter how 
unlikely the circumstances.

d6

1

2

3

4

5

6

d6
1

2

3

4

5

6

d6

1

2

3

4

5

6

Ideal
Community. My business is an anchor upon which the lives 
and well-being of many depend. (Good)
Tradition. What we do and how we do it defines our 
culture, and thus ourselves. (Lawful)
Innovation. It doesn’t matter what you’re doing, there’s 
always a better way to do it. (Chaotic)
Profit. At the end of the day, I’m only in this for the money. 
(Evil)
 Aspiration. One day, I want to own a business so large it’s 
known all over the world. (Any)
Industry. A hard day’s work is its own reward. (Lawful)

Bond
I will take revenge on the thugs who robbed my business.
One day I will sell my business and use the money to do 
something truly worthwhile.
To me, my business is like a sacred temple, to be defended 
at all cost.
I had a prior business that failed – and the money lenders 
are still after me to pay the debts.
My employees depend on the wages I pay to provide for 
their families; if my business fails, I fail them.
My parents entrusted their life’s work to me, and I refuse to 
disappoint them.

Flaw
My inheritance is shared with my siblings and I would gladly 
betray them to take it all for myself.
I value profit more than the well-being of my employees.
To keep my business afloat I made a deal with some 
criminals.
I resent my parents for forcing me to be part of their 
business instead of allowing me to follow my own dreams.
I assume everyone is trying to cheat me.
My employees don’t love me, but they do fear me, and I like 
it that way.

25

A GOING CONCERNtotal value of the gross investment if needed to cover losses 
(see the rules for debt on page 23). 

Employing debt to start a business obviously adds 

somewhat to the challenge of generating a net profit, as the 
business incurs interest expenses immediately. However, this 
is offset somewhat by interest rates being generally lower 
in a capitalist economy. When calculating monthly interest 
expense, use a rate of 10% instead of 20% to reflect this.

magiCmagiC

The subject of magic hasn’t intruded in 

the preceding rules for two reasons. The 
first is that the amount of magic present 
in a campaign varies substantially. Thus, 
the extent to which magic influences the 
economy and the practice of running a 

business also varies from campaign to campaign. The second 
is that there are simply so many different ways the presence 
of magic can impact business, it’s effectively impossible to 
anticipate all the possibilities.

Many spells have the potential to alter the normal course 
of commerce. Even if only cantrips are considered, there are 
spells such as friends and mending which can respectively 
swing the outcome of a contract negotiation in favour of 
the spellcaster and render the efforts of a small army of 
artisans irrelevant.

Higher level spells magnify these effects: Charm person, 
detect thoughts, fabricate and a plethora of other still more 
powerful spells can alter many of the basic assumptions 
that make an economy work. How can one expect to sell 
something for a profit when she can be magically compelled 
to just give it away? How can one expect to earn a living 

Feudal and Capitalist 
Feudal and Capitalist 
eConomies
eConomies

The preceding rules all assume an 

economy roughly based on the historical 
feudal economies of the real world. A 
basic description of this sort of economy is 
that land is owned by the ruling class (the 
nobility for example). Common people are 

given the right to live and work on the land in exchange 
for service they provide to their local noble. In addition to 
their right to live and work the land, the commoners are also 
granted military protection by their noble lord or lady.

For modern readers, who likely live in a capitalist economy 

where land can be privately owned, much of the feudal 
economy would seem rather alien. This is no doubt why 
the settings of most Dungeons & Dragons games, while 
ostensibly mimicking the medieval period’s economics, owe 
considerably more to contemporary economic sensibilities.
One of the key differences between feudal and capitalist 
economies is the use of debt. In feudal economies money 
lending exists, but generally only in relatively small amounts, 
for relatively short periods of time and for relatively high 
rates of interest. The notion of borrowing significant sums 
in order to build a house or start a business is not part of a 
feudal world.

In order to simulate a capitalist economy, a few alterations 

need to be made to the above rules regarding debt: First, it 
is permissible to borrow money and use it to invest in an 
existing business or to construct a new business. This initial 
debt cannot exceed 50% of the total investment being made, 
although the total debt can subsequently increase up to the 

26

A GOING CONCERNby building things when someone else can cause them to 
magically appear with the wave of a hand? For that matter, 
what good does it do to hold inventory for sale when spells 
like invisibility and dimension door make property rights 
nothing more than a philosophical concept?

These issues are presented as questions because the 

answers are not given here. Every dungeon master needs to 
decide for herself the prevalence of magic in her world and 
what its effects are. Perhaps magic is rare enough that the 
economy marches on indistinguishable from a world without 
magic. Or perhaps it’s so ubiquitous that every business 
owner must be an accomplished spellcaster, with arcane 
constructs and summoned fiends standing sentry over every 
transaction, or else risk almost immediate bankruptcy. Most 
campaigns will fall somewhere between the two extremes – 
just remember that the more magic there is in a setting, the 
more businesses must be ready to incorporate it into their 
operations and be prepared to defend against it.

A further consideration is the existence of magic items and 
the possibility of procuring or even manufacturing them for 
resale. The official rulebooks provide some guidelines as to 
the time and resources needed to construct magic items, as 
well as the potential value to sell them. For the purpose of 
operating a business using these rules, there should be no 
need to treat a concern dealing in magical items differently 
than any other business.

Depending on whether the magic items are purchased for 

resale or manufactured from scratch, the business would 
be either resale- or manufacturing-type. Beyond that, all 
the rules contained herein pertain equally well to a magical 
business as to a mundane one. Bear in mind that while 
enchanted items may sell for a premium, so too would they 
cost a considerable amount to buy or make, hence the return 
on investment concepts presented in these rules can be used 
without adjustment.

adventure hooks
adventure hooks

Owning and operating a business should 

help integrate the player characters into 
the campaign setting. At a minimum, 
the business becomes a home base for 
the party – somewhere to pass time 
constructively and hopefully earn some 

money while waiting for the next adventure. It also provides 
player characters with something meaningful to do with all 
that treasure they find.

Ideally, it can be much more than this. Owning a business 
allows for natural adventure hooks. This concept is strongly 
tied to the narrative you construct to explain the results of 
monthly business operations (see “Developing a Narrative 
for Market Conditions” on page 13). With a minimum of 
coaxing, a story should begin to emerge that can lead to new 
adventures in an organic and unexpected way.

Remember also that although there are limitations on the 

sort of management actions a business can take, whether 
due to time constraints in a month or to culture restrictions, 
there’s nothing saying an adventuring party can’t take it upon 

themselves to influence the market environment through 
their own ingenuity.

The adventure hooks table lists a number of possible 
business-related adventure hooks, which can be rolled for 
randomly or used for inspiration.

Adventure Hooks

d10

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

Adventure Hook
Once prolific resources of a mine, forest or other such site 
have mysteriously become scarce
Shipments to or from the business are being targeted by 
bandits, and it’s far too frequent to be random
Unscrupulous competitors are plotting against the 
company; their plans include sabotage and worse
Customers of the business have been disappearing and the 
authorities suspect the owner
A new noble family has assumed control of the area, and 
the business is at risk of being outlawed
Odd weather has been hampering operations, and the 
portents say it isn’t natural
A protection racket has moved into the area and threatened 
the business – pay up or else
War is brewing: Will it be good for business or a 
catastrophe?
Steep tariffs are cutting into profits and smugglers are 
offering their services to avoid the onerous levies, but is it 
worth the risk?
A new client is offering a rich contract, but whoever wins 
it needs to complete a series of bizarre and potentially 
dangerous tasks

27

A GOING CONCERN28

A GOING CONCERNBusiness examples
Business examples

In order to illustrate the rules presented 

above, two businesses are exemplified here. 
The first is relatively straightforward – a 
smallish service business. The second is a more 
complex combination business with several 
owners. Both businesses are described over the 

course of one or more months of operation to demonstrate 
the use of random events and management actions.

Business example 1: the 
emBlazoned esCutCheon
Warrior and explorer Adalbern Vigdis honed his skills as a 
soldier-for-hire before joining a freelance adventuring party. 
Some time has passed and, with a heavy purse and an eye 
towards the future, Adalbern is looking to invest some of his 
earnings. The only sort of business the warrior really knows 
is soldiering, so he decides to start up a small mercenary 
company called The Emblazoned Escutcheon.

Adalbern’s player, Agnes, confers with her dungeon master 

and they both agree that a mercenary company is properly 
classified as a service-type business. The risk factor is x1. 
Being a proponent of new strategies and equipment styles, 
Adalbern decides that an innovative culture suits his business 
best. Goodwill begins at the base 10%.

The last piece needed to set the business up is to decide on 
the initial investment. In this case, Adalbern decides to invest 
5,000 gold pieces. At the default construction speed, he needs 
to wait 34 days before the business is up and running. (Note 
that this “construction” time also includes the time needed 
to recruit employees, assemble equipment and supplies, 
and so forth).

While waiting for the construction to complete, Agnes 

elects to spend some time adding more description to 
the business, giving it a real identity and presence in the 
campaign. Again, conferring with the DM, Agnes decides 
that a 5,000-gold investment is sufficient to build a small 
barracks with an adjoining training yard, a good selection of 
basic arms, armour, and other needed supplies, with enough 
left over for the working capital needed to finance the first 
month’s payroll and other expenses. The company employs 
about 30 hired mercenaries (the specific number isn’t 
important, but 30 sounds reasonable).

Since Adalbern has been adventuring in and around 
Daggerford, that will be the location of the barracks. This 
mercenary company offers security services as well as 
occasional military work in border skirmishes and other 
engagements around the central Sword Coast.

For the first month of operations, Adalbern sticks close to 

Daggerford so he can be available for management actions. 
Agnes begins by rolling for market conditions and checks for 
random events.

For market environment, there are no roll modifiers 
as this is the first month of operating. Agnes rolls 3d6 for 
each condition, getting 14 for economic (favourable, +1% 
ROI), 9 for political (neutral), 10 for strife (neutral) and 
13 for competition (favourable, +1% ROI). A 1d6 roll for 
random events comes up 4, no random event this month. So 
far, so good.

Since Adalbern is spending downtime in the area, he 

decides to try a management action. As this is an innovative 
business, it seems natural to try the invention action. The 
base DC is 30, but since the warrior has nothing else going 
on, he decides to spend 25 days on the action, reducing the 
DC to the minimum of 5. Agnes makes her Intelligence 
ability check, rolling an 11. Since she exceeded the DC 
by 5 or more, this is an outstanding success and the gross 
investment of Adalbern’s business increases by 4%.

At the end of the first month, the return on investment 

calculation looks like this:

29

A GOING CONCERNNote that the gross investment is 5,200 gold rather than 

5,000 gold because the invention management action 
increased it by 4%. Adalbern pockets 52 gold pieces in profits 
after one month of operation – not too shabby.

Agnes can now update the Emblazoned Escutcheon’s 
goodwill value. Using the current goodwill of 10% (starting 
goodwill for a new business) and the month’s ROI of 12%, 
the revised goodwill is calculated as 10.1%.

At this point Agnes and her DM have the choice of 
moving on to the next month or spending some time 
building a narrative for the month’s activity. The market 
conditions aren’t unusual enough to be suggestive of any 
real drama, but it might be interesting to consider what 
that invention action represents. Perhaps Adalbern spent 
those 25 days showing his newly-hired mercenaries some 
of the unorthodox techniques he learned as an adventurer, 
or perhaps the old warrior has a few tricks to make armour 
fit better. There are many possibilities, but whatever 
Agnes decides on should reasonably explain why her little 
mercenary company is just a bit more valuable now than it 
was at the beginning of the month. 

Business example 2: the orC’s 
Fork tavern and Flophouse
Adventuring parties are known for frequenting 
establishments that more genteel company would avoid. The 
Orc’s Fork Tavern and Flophouse is one such place. Despite 
its decrepit appearance and evil reputation, the place holds 
a certain fascination for the opportunistic sell-sword trio of 

Ruaidri, Colman, and Donnchad. When the prior owner 
offered to sell The Orc’s Fork for 7,425 gold (6,750 gold 
investment value plus 10% goodwill premium), the three 
split the cost and became joint proprietors.

The Fork, as it’s commonly known, offers rooms for 
rent and a kitchen which serves hot meals and lukewarm 
ales from its location amidst the wharves of Luskan. The 
trio’s players, Marcello, Kalila, and Asher, meet with 
their dungeon master to discuss the type and culture of 
the business. Offering rooms for rent signifies a service 
business, but serving meals and drinks is closer to resale or 
manufacturing. There is the option of splitting the concern 
up into two or more separate investments, but since all 
activity takes place in a single building, it makes more sense 
to keep it a single investment. The dungeon master decides 
the Fork is a mixed service/manufacturing/resale business, 
with an averaged risk factor of 3.

Since it’s an existing business, the DM chooses its culture, 

which based on reputation he decides is cut-throat. The 
player characters could choose to change the culture, but 
for now cut-throat suits them so they leave it alone (taking 
a rather expansive view of what constitutes heroic role-
playing). The gross investment is equal to the purchase value 
of 6,750 gold, which excludes the goodwill premium. Each of 
the three owners individually holds a 2,250-gold piece share 
of the total business.

Adventure calls, so the sell-swords leave the Fork in 
the hands of its staff and promptly leave town. At the 
end of the month, the players elect Kalila to roll for the 
business’s activity.

30

A GOING CONCERNRolling for market environment, she gets 17 for economic 

(propitious, +3% ROI!), 9 for political (neutral), 7 for strife 
(unfavourable, -1% ROI), and 12 for competition (neutral). 
Since this business was already operating, the dungeon 
master could have ruled that existing market conditions 
warranted adjustments to the market environment rolls but 
chose not to.

Kalila then rolls for random events and the result is a 6 – 

a random event has occurred. She rolls 2d6 and gets a 4: a 
malfunction. This is going to hurt the return on investment, 
unfortunately. 

For the first month of operations, the return on 

investment looks like this:

with a +4 adjustment for the prior propitious state makes 
it a 14 (favourable, +1% ROI), 8 for political (unfavourable, 
-1% ROI), 6 for strife, with a -2 adjustment makes it a 4 
(adverse, -3% ROI), and 11 for competition (neutral). The 
market environment is getting worse, particularly the 
strife condition.

Rolling for random events, Kalila gets another 6, then a 
5 on her 2d6 roll to see which event occurs – yet another 
malfunction!

The second month’s ROI calculation looks like this:

The business is profiting, and the owners would split 
the profit three ways (it won’t divide evenly, but hopefully 
Ruaidri, Colman, and Donnchad can come to a friendly 
agreement on who keeps the extra few coppers). It’s worth 
noting that the money doesn’t magically appear in their 
purses – the business would hold on to it until they make a 
trip back to town to pick up their earnings.

Goodwill can be recalculated using the 7% ROI:

( [7%-10%]÷24 ) +10%=9.9%
With the malfunction, the owners are worried their new 
business is falling apart in their absence, so they make their 
way back to Luskan with enough time left to spend 12 days 
performing the maintenance management action before the 
end of the second month.

The DC for the Intelligence ability check is 18 (30 less the 

12 days spent). Colman is the smartest of the three owners 
(or so he says), so he makes the ability check with assistance 
from Donnchad to give him advantage on the roll. With 
his Intelligence modifier of -2 (“smartest” is a relative term, 
after all), Colman’s result is an 11. Unfortunately, this is 
bad enough that the result is a catastrophic failure and the 
business endures yet another malfunction.

For the second month’s operations, Kalila makes the 
remaining rolls. She rolls 10 for the economic condition, 

Having already spent their prior month’s earnings, the 
sell-swords decide to incur debt to cover this month’s losses, 
hoping to pay it off with future profits. They note the 
135-gold debt balance on their business sheet, but interest 
expense is calculated based on opening debt, not closing, so 
there is no interest expense this month.

Goodwill continues to drop with the second 

month’s results:

( [-8%-9.9%]÷24 ) +9.9%=9.2%

Not wanting to repeat last month’s maintenance fiasco, 
the owners decide to bring in a contractor to help. They 
hire a consultant with a cost of 2 gp/day for 20 days. 
The maintenance action’s ability check is made with the 
consultant’s +2 modifier, with advantage, against a DC of 
10. Marcello makes the roll, rolling a 14 with the modifier 
included. Not an outstanding success, but enough to remove 
the existing three malfunctions.

Marcello opts to continue the rolling in month three. 
For the market environment, he rolls 10 for economic 
(+2 adjustment makes it a 12 – neutral), 9 for political (-2 
adjustment drops it to 7 – unfavourable, -1% ROI), 12 for 
strife (-4 adjustment makes it an 8 – unfavourable, -1% ROI) 
and 11 for competition (neutral). His roll for random events 
comes up a 2, no random event this month.

31

A GOING CONCERNFor the third month’s ROI, the calculation looks like this:

The 40-gold piece contractor cost ate into the profits, as 
did the interest expense on the debt balance, but at least the 
business is back to being profitable.

Goodwill doesn’t improve, but the third month’s ROI is 

high enough that it doesn’t worsen either:

( [8%-9.2%]÷24 ) +9.2%=9.2%

At this point, the trio decide that life as business owners 
isn’t for them, and so they sell the Fork. (In other words, they 
divest the entire investment).

To calculate the sales value, they start with the gross 

investment of 6,750 gold pieces. From that they subtract debt 
of 135 gold. Lastly, they determine the goodwill adjustment: 
9.2% x 6,750 gives a goodwill adjustment of 621 gold. The 
total sales value is 7,236 gold pieces. Since the three are equal 
owners, each would pocket 2,412 gold from the proceeds 
of the sale.

Throughout the three months of business operations, 
more flavour could be added to the events if the players and 
their dungeon master wish. What specifically caused those 
malfunctions? Was it a faulty stove, a leaky roof, a cockroach 
infestation? The strife condition was also detrimental – was 
that due to calm weather keeping ships out to sea and their 
crews away from the Fork’s tap house, or some other cause? 
These sorts of narrative additions aren’t strictly necessary, 
but do use them if they’re fun or if they lead to unexpected 
drama and adventure.

32

A GOING CONCERNBusiness sheet
Business name

Business type

risk FaCtor

goodwill

owner

owner

owner

owner

appendix: the Business sheet
appendix: the Business sheet

gross investment

loCation

Culture

desCription and history oF Business

share

share

share

share

market environment

Current month prior month

roi impaCt

return on investment CalCulator

Base roi 

10%

eConomiC

politiCal

striFe

Competition

random events

Current month

malFunCtions

CanCelled ContraCts

± market environment 

− aCCumulated malFunCtions 

− aCCumulated CanCelled

ContraCts  

± other random events   

± management aCtions 

= gross roi 

× risk FaCtor 

roi impaCt

management aCtions

roi impaCt

= risk-weighted roi 

deBt

× gross investment 

÷ 12 = gross roi   

− interest expense  

− ContraCt laBour expense 

± other adjustments 

= net return on investment 

33

A GOING CONCERN 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
