CHAPTER 1:  SALTMARSH 

ALTMARSH  IS A NONDESCRIPT FISHING VILLAGE 
tucked away on the southern coast of the 
Kingdom of Keoland. For several generations, 
Keoland was a formidable military power. 
Its superior cavalry and bold knights pushed 
the kingdom's borders outward to the north. 
west. and east. Each successful campaign 
increased both the crown's wealth and power, 
and each one in turn drew the kingdom's attention even 
farther north. The southern coastal regions of Keoland 
remained a backwater. 

The crown's benign neglect allowed piracy and ban-
ditry to flourish. Saltmarsh and similar towns kept to 
fishing, content to maintain a low profile and avoid gov-
ernmental entanglements. Decades ago, the pirates who 
prowled the waters off Saltmarsh grew strong enough 
to create their own realm, a loose confederacy known as 
the Hold of the Sea Princes. With the rise of that nation 
came increased raids on Saltmarsh and its neighbors. 
The Sea Princes' raiding ships pillaged the coast for 
more slaves to support their growing realm. and Salt-
marsh suffered heavily. The memories of those times 
loom heavily over the area, and the locals' hatred of the 
Sea Princes runs deep. 

In time, Keoland's victories in the north gave way to 

a string of defeats in which its neighbors pushed the 
kingdom back to its original boundaries. With the world 
closing in, King Kimbertos Skotti looked to the south 
and saw unchecked banditry and a rising pirate nation. 
The crown struck peace treaties with its former foes to 
the north, raised a navy, and dealt a sharp check to the 
ambitions of the Sea Princes- but the conflict is by no 
means over. 

King Skotti has decreed that the pirates must be put 

down, the sea lanes secured, and trade cultivated. If 
Keoland cannot prosper as a military force,  it must grow 
mightier as a center of trade. 

Saltmarsh. remote though it might be from the center 

of power in Keoland, is entering a new phase of its life 
as it reacts to the king's plans. The crown's agents want 
to expand the village's port and make it a prime location 
for trade with the world beyond. In another recent devel-
opment, a band of dwarves  bearing a decree from the 
king himself- have arrived and begun LO excavate the 
hills and seaside cliffs near town, looking for precious 
metals. If their work bears fruit as expected, the mine 
stands to become a major factor in the village's-and. 
indeed, the entire region's  prosperity. 

Naturally, not all of Saltniarsh's residems feel the 
same way about the recent developments in and around 
their community, which is the key issue that affects their 
lives and livelihood. Although the recent changes stand 
to bring new prosperity to the area. many locals don't 
want to see their home changed. At the same time. as 
an undercurrent through all the goings-on, agents of the 
secretive and mysterious Scarlet Brotherhood work to 
thwart Keoland's ambitions while advancing their own. 

POLITICS AND FACTIONS 
Saltmarsh's future rests in the hands of three factions 
that compete for supremacy. Two of the factions repre-
sent the opposing sentiments that have grown in town 
in recent years. The third is a secret group that seeks to 
undermine Saltmarsh and seize control of the region. 
These factions' struggles play out in the day-to-day lives 
of the townsfolk and  the political maneuvering of Salt-
marsh·s town council. 

TRADITI O NALISTS 

The traditionalist faction is an alliance of the prominent 
fishing families and merchants in town, along with the 
workers who rely on  those industries for a living. The 
traditionalists remember the terrible times during the 
Sea Princes' raids and have no desire to see the crown's 
ambitions lead to open war. The smugglers who operate 
in the area tend to be traditionalists. Most pose as mer-
chants and rely on their local contacts to move goods 
through the region without interference from the town 
guard or royal agents. Smuggling has long been an easy 
way to make money in Saltmarsh, and locals generally 
look the other way, seeing it as a victimless crime. 

The traditionalists would like to see the dwarves' min-
ing efforts fail and interest from the north wane, so that 
Saltmarsh's dependable fishing trade can thrive and 
the smugglers in the area are left alone. They resent the 
intrusion of outsiders seeking to transform Saltmarsh 
and undoubtedly drain power from the fishing families 
to give to dwarves and merchants. 

This faction relies on two council members for repre-
sentation. Eda Oweland leads the faction and can count 
on Gellan Primewater to back her up. Anders Solmor is 
young and unpredictable. but he has supported the tradi-
tionalists' viewpoint on most issues. 

At their best, traditionalists are community-minded 

folk who want Saltmarsh to return to its old way of 
doing things, arguing that the town has survived for a 
century by sticking to its original priorities. They suf-
fered mightily due to the Sea Princes' depredations and 
remember the days when the crown turned a blind eye 
to their troubles. Their loyalty to the king runs second to 
their desire for peace and quiet. 

EDA 0WELAND 
Eda (CG  female human noble) is the current senior 
member of the town council, as well as the owner of 
three large fishing boats. She has lived in Saltmarsh all 
her life and has been elected to the council three times. 
She is a gruff, pragmatic woman whose graying hair is 
cut short and whose face bears the marks of a life lived 
outdoors. Eda is keenly interested in expanding Salt-
marsh's fishing industry. her sights set on a wild section 
of the coast where she hopes to build a new dock. She is 
suspicious of the dwarves' mining enterprise and doubts 
it will amount to much. 

C 1-IAPTf  RI  S>\LI \I 

7 

Pe.rsonality  Traits. Eda swears like a sailor when she 
is frustrated or angry. and the folk in town who support 
her appreciate her wi II ingness to stick up for them. 
Despite her temper. she respects those who keep their 
cool. Anyone who stands up to her wins her respect. 
Those who try to flatter her earn her contempt. 

Ideal.  If anyone in town needs help. Eda is the first 
lo volunteer. She believes community binds people to-
gether and allows the1n  to ride out che  fiercest storm. 

Bond. Saltmarsh is Eda's home. She would protect it 

to her dying breath and wants its people to prosper. 

Flaw. Eda is suspicious of outsiders. and she is too 

quick to trust those familiar to her. 

GELLAN  PRIMEWATER 
Gellan (NE male human noble) is a well-spoken, dap-
per older gentleman with a neatly trimmed beard and a 
fancy wardrobe. With his cunning instincts, he has po-
sitioned his family to become the most prominent mer-
chants in town. but he now faces an  intractable problem. 
Gellan made his fortune through smuggling, his textile 
and lumber exports serving as a cover for his illegal 
activities. When Saltmarsh was a sleepy backwater, he 
could operate with impunity. Now that Saltmarsh has 
attracted attention from the outside world, he sees busi-
ness growing more difficult and less profitable. 

Over the years, Gellan has cultivated relationships 
with a number of contacts among the Sea Princes. His 
ships move illicit goods, including slaves, between their 
realm and Keoland. Gellan takes care to keep this side 
of his business quiet, since any hint of involvement with 
slave traders would mean the end of his days in Salt-
marsh, if not his life. 

Gellan seeks to keep his smuggling cartel functioning 

with as little interference as possible. Having a seat on 
the council puts him in a perfect position to maintain his 
business while supporting all aspects of the traditional-
ists' agenda. His popularity in the faction is second only 
to that of Eda Oweland. 

Because Gellan is the wealthiest man in town, be 
garners a great deal of popu lar support from the many 
feasts, entertainments, and other diversions he supports 
with expenditures and donations. H e pretends to care 
l ittle for the daily functions of the council. defaulting to 
throw his support behind Eda's position. Tn  truth, this 
deference is a ruse he uses to mask his efforts to shield 
his smuggling operation. 

Personality Traits. Gcllan loves to play che role of the 

foppish dandy. He enjoys fine wine. good food. and the 
latest fashions. He is a patron of the arts and spends lav-
ishly to support festivals. plays. and concerts. 

Ideal.  For Gellan. beauty and elegance are everything. 

He derives great enjoyment from watching the town en-
joy his events. 

Bond. Gellan values his reputation above all else. He 

wants to be admired by the people of Saltmarsh. 

Flaw. Greed colors every action Gellan takes. He can't 

turn down a chance lo turn a profit. even if it means 
breaking the law. Gellan secretly believes that even if 
he is caught, he can spend his way back into the town's 
good graces by throwing the biggest. most extravagant 
festival Saltmarsh has ever seen. 

Gii ·\i' IL I!  l  I  SA i  I 

THE TRADITlONALISTS IN PLAY 
The traditionalists simply want things to remain the 
same. If they had their way,  the dwarves would go home, 
the guard would stick to dealing with monsters rather 
than hassling honest traders, and the crown would go 
back to dreaming of conquests in the north. The more 
things change. the more this faction resorts to open pro-
test and resistance. 

TRADITIONALIST SAMPLE  EVENTS 

Event 

d20 
1- 6  A group of fishers accosts dwarves and other out-
siders, demanding they leave town or else. 
7- 10  Gellan  Primewater rm ports a variety of exotic flow-

ers that he uses to decorate the town, while also 
distributing fresh  tropical fruit free of charge to the 
townsfolk. 

11-12  A fire  breaks out in  town, and  Eda  Oweland raises 

funds  to support those who lost their homes. 

13- 14  A fishing boat goes missing with its crew. They 

were smuggling a haul of black pearls, and Gellan 
wants his treasure back without risking his cover. 

1S-16  A bountiful catch leads to a day of feasting and 

reconciliation, giving the factions  a chance to make 
amends. 

17- 18  A bungled smuggling operation lands a few  re-

19 

20 

spected people in jail, leading to near riots as fish-
ers gather in a huge mob to effect a breakout. 
A horrible sea creature has been sighted. keeping 
many crews at the docks until rt disappears. Any-
one who tracks it down and slays it would be a 
hero. Gellan pledges a magic weapon to its slayer. 
Several fishing crews have gone missing. The locals 
demand that Keoland dispatch a squadron of ships 
to track down the slavers from  the Sea  Princes who 
surely kidnapped them. 

LOYALISTS 

The loyalists consist of newcomers who arrived from 
the northern reaches of Keoland, loyal to K ing Kim-
bertos Skotti. They feel  that the town should focus on 
becoming a useful asset to the crown and value the good 
of the kingdom before the good of the region. The town 
guard. the dwarves. and the local farmers are generally 
loyalists. 

The loyalists care about security. They want to keep 
Keoland's enemies at bay while ensuring law and order. 
They see smuggling as a key problem, as it enriches the 
Sea Princes at the cost of the royal treasury and the ef-
forts of honest merchants. 

Above all else. the members of this faction put their 

faith in law. They exert influence through the town 
guard, though they remain within their legal authority. 

At their best. the loyalists want to grow Saltmarsh into 

a trading hub with a higher standard of living and im-
proved security. If the Sea Princes are held in check and 
the sea lanes cleared of threats, Saltmarsh can grow to 
become the envy of the world. 

At their worst. the loyalists see the people of Salt-

marsh as a barrier to growth. The locals are little more 
than allies of the Sea Princes, traitors who for too long 
have evaded the crown's notice. If they were to do as the 
loyalists tell them, then perhaps this fish-reeking pile of 
a town could become something respectable. 

ELIANDE R F l REBORN 
Eliander (LN male human gladiator) fought in the royal 
army of Keoland. where he earned a name driving the 
wild th in gs of the Dreadwood away from the settled 
lands. Eliandcr suffered a tremendous injury to his leg 
in a battle against an owlbear and now walks upon a 
finely carved wooden peg. Despite his injury and ad-
vancing age. the burly captain of the Saltmarsh town 
guard remains an imposing figure. El iander is a local 
celebrity thanks to his facility with languages, and he is 
often called upon by the town's various organizations to 
assist with translations. He is fully literate in Common, 
Dwarvish, Gnomish, Elvish. and Halfling: he can also 
speak and understand Ore and Draconic. 

In a crisis, Eliander Fireborn might put the good of 
the crown above local rule. He possesses a royal writ 
that allows him to seize authority over the town guard in 
case of an emergency. He is loath to use it, as the locals 
might react to his seizure of power with an open revolt. 

Personality  Traits. Caution guides Eliander·s 
thoughts and his every action. He recognizes that 
Saltmarsh is on  the verge of tremendous growth, but 
he sees the influence of the Sea Princes behind every 
stroke of misfortune. Slow and steady wi ns the day, as 
he likes to say. 

Ideal. Eliander is a faithful servant of the crown. The 

law must be obeyed. as faithful service and iron disci-
pline arc the surest ways to maintain peace and order. 

Bond. Once he gives his word, Eliander keeps it to the 

death. Honor is his life. and treachery earns his wrath. 
Flaw. Eliander is stubborn to a fault. Once he sets 

his mind to a belief or a course of action, little can 
dissuade him. 

MANISTRAD  COPPERLOCKS 
The leader of the newly established mini ng operation 
in Saltmarsh is an  iron-willed dwarven woman named 
Manistrad (LN fema le dwarf veteran). She r uns the 
mining outfit from a small office near the edge of town. 
Manistrad is a competent leader, as well as a savvy 
miner with a knack for pulling off impossible jobs. She's 
convinced that the veins of si lver found in the cliffs near 
Saltmarsh are indicative of more valuable stones deeper 
in the rock. She was once a fearsome warrior, and she's 
not above delivering a few well-placed blows to ensure 
her orders are followed. 

Manistrad occupies an awkward place on the coun-
cil. She was placed in her position by royal decree: the 
crown decided that if Saltmarsh is 10 support a mining 
operation. the miners would need a political voice. A 
more diplomatic figure might have smoothed over the 
tension. but Manistrad has little patience and sees the 
rest of the council, save for Eliander. as rustic dullards. 
Personality Traits. Manistrad is a woman of few 

words. She is curt and  quick, yet she gives every person 
who comes before the council a fair accounting. She's 
nobody's fool. 

< It \Pl IR  I  S.\IT\iAR"ll 

q 

Ideal. Curiosity and hard work mark everything 
Manistrad does. Once she is interested in a topic, 
she is relentless in learning about it. Obstacles don't 
slow her down. 

Bond. Manistrad is intensely loyal  to her kinfolk and 
the mining operation her clan seeks to establish here. 
Threats to the livelihood of the dwarves earn her wrath. 
Flaw. Manistrad has little patience; she tends to push 

for quick results over a more measured approach. 

THE LOYALISTS  IN PLAY 
T he loyalists are focused on two things: ensuring that 
the dwarven mine is a success, and clamping down on 
smuggling to keep the Sea Princes in check. The mine 
is the most precious commodity in the region for this 
faction, and its members do everything they can to sup-
port it. If word of any Sea Prince activity reaches the 
loyalists, they are quick to meet the threat. 

LOYALIST  SAMPLE  EVENTS 

d20 
1- 6 

Event 
The town gua rd cracks down on smuggling, going 
house to house in  search of contraband. 

7-10  A tribe of marauders  (gnolls, ores, or goblins) 

moves  into the area, putting the town on alert and 
forcing Eliander to call out the militia. The tradi· 
tionalists chafe under his orders. 

11-1 2  A mass breakout allows a crew of smugglers to es-

cape the dungeons, increasing te nsion in  town. 

13-14  The dwarves make a spectacular find  in the mine, 

sparking plans to expand their presence and the 
docks. 

15-16  Eliander and the town gua rd are called away to help 

deal with a threat from the Dreadwood, leaving 
behind only a skeleton crew to keep the peace and 
watch the mine. 

19 

17-18  A new wave of immigrants from  the north arrives 
in town, tilting the population such that the loyal· 
ists might win a majority in  the next town council 
election. 
A bloody battle against pirates leaves a Keoish na· 
val  squadron  undermanned. The squadron  comes 
to town  to press local sailors into service.  Eliander 
secretly passes along the names of hotheaded t ra· 
ditionalists for the press gangs to target. 
Having found  enough evidence to charge him, 
Eliander seizes Gellan and ships him  to Seaton to 
face charges of smuggling. Riots  break out in  town. 

20 

SCARLET BROTHERHOOD 

The Scarlet Brotherhood claims that the bloodline of its 
followers traces back to an ancient empi re, the Suel lm-
perium, and their goal is to restore the old Suloise noble 
houses to prominence in the world. As scions of a realm 
that once enjoyed unmatched arcane power and a vast 
dominion, its members see themselves as superior to all 
other folk and the only ones fit  to ru le. 

For decades, this group has been concocting a con-
spiracy to spread fear, chaos, and uncertainty across the 

ro 

CltAP1 EH  1  S \1-J \HRSll 

land. When the time is right, the Brotherhood w ill strike 
to seize the reins in kingdoms all across the world. Al· 
ready its assassins have s lain those who might oppose 
their sinister plans. In almost every court in  the land, 
from the most remote backwater barony to the imperial 
courts of world powers, the Brotherhood's agents have 
quietly assumed positions of influence. 

In Saltmarsh, the Brotherhood supports councilman 
Anders Solmor and his fami ly's trade cartel.  They hope 
to use Anders to destabilize the region, weaken the 
crown, and clear the way for the Scarlet Brotherhood to 
seize control. The Brotherhood arranges for the Solmor 
ships to meet with eager merchants in distant ports who 
pay well above market value for  his goods, ensuring his 
popula rity and dependence on Brotherhood contacts. 
The Brotherhood plans to surround him with their 
advisers and functionaries to ensure that Saltmarsh 
develops under their control. They intend to ignite open 
war between Keoland and the Sea Princes, leaving 
both realms battered and weakened while the Brother-
hood  moves in. 

Unlike the other factions in Saltmarsh, there is no 
good s ide to the Scarlet Brotherhood. As unrepentant 
megalomaniacs, they are villains through and through. 

ANDERS  SOLMOR 
Young Anders (LG male human noble) recently inher-
ited his family's fleet of fishing boats after the untimely 
death of his mother, Petra. He's the youngest person 
ever to be elected to the council. Brash and inexperi-
enced. Anders is a slight man with sharp features and 
a toothy smi le. His recent forays into trade have made 
him a local celebrity. Since Anders owns both a fishing 
fleet and several trading vessels, he can sell his catch at 
a highly competitive price. And he can offer better prices 
for  the other fishers in  town to sell to him, since his 
catch brings in so much more profit. 

Everyone involved  in  the town's fishing industry sup-
ports Anders, and his energy and ambition  have made 
him something of a folk hero on  the docks. On the other 
hand, his open opposition to smuggling and his hatred 
of the Sea Princes' practice of slavery makes him a 
thorn in the smugglers' side. 

Unbeknownst to Anders, his butler, Skerrin Wave-
chaser, is an agent for  the Scarlet Brotherhood. He 
engineered the death of Anders' mother and has placed 
a number of Brotherhood agents in key positions in  the 
Solmor fleet. 

Personality Traits.  Anders is sunny and optimistic. 
He sees the potential for profit and opportunity in every 
challenge. Unfortunately, he is too young to temper his 
views with a realistic assessment of the risks. 

Ideal. Anders believes that freedom  is the root of hap-

piness. He pays his employees well  and wants to help 
Saltmarsh grow into a prosperous town. Above all else, 
be hates the Sea Princes and wants to see their realm 
and its slave trade scoured from the earth. 

Bond. Anders's mother Petra was the center of his 
life, and his sense of responsibility stems from  her ex-
ample. Every important decision  he makes is guided 
by  his desire to live up to her standards. If Skerrin is 
implicated in her murder, his hold over Anders would be 

shattered. For now, Skerrin uses Petra's memory to fan 
Anders's antipathy toward the Sea Princes. 

Flaw.  Due to a combination of his youth and his 
somewhat sheltered upbringing, Anders is naive. He 
relied on  his mother's expertise in  most matters, which 
has aliowed Skerrin to worm his way into Anders's 
confidence. 

SKERRIN WAVECHASER 
Skerrin (LE male human assassin) is secretly the head 
Brotherhood agent in town. Tall,  lean, tan, with short 
silver hair,  he speaks in precise, measured statements 
of a man who has a keen eye for detail. He is dispas-
sionate and takes a protective stance toward Anders. 
To observers, he is nothing more than a faithful and 
trusted butler. 

Skerri n was renowned for his patience during his 
days as an assassin for the Brotherhood. Once, he hid 
himself in the attic above a noble's bedroom, waiting 
in a trance-like state for  three days and nights until his 
target was positioned just below a small crack in the 
room's ceiling. Skerrin squeezed a single drop from a 
vial of poison he carried on to the noble's bald scalp. He 
waited in his hiding place for another full day until the 
contact poison killed the man. 

Personality Traits. Skerrin is literally a man of two 
personalities. He appears to be a concerned, fatherly fig-
ure, a Joyal  retainer who worries about his young mas-
ter. With a few moments of focus. however, he can shift 
to become a cold-blooded, patient killer. 

Ideal. When operating as Anders' servant, Skerrin 
believes that it is the duty of those with experience and 
wisdom to advise the young. As an assassin, he holds 
that those strong enough to survive flourish only by cull-
ing the weak. 

Bond. S kerring's bond alternates between Anders 
and the Scarlet Brotherhood. He sees both as the best 
bets to bring order and security to the world. 

Flaw. Arrogance. Skerrin genuinely believes that if 
he had to,  he could murder everyone of consequence in 
town in a single night and secure the place for  the Scar-
let Brotherhood. Sometimes he is tempted to do so, if 
only to prove himself right. 

THE SCARLET BROTHERHOOD  IN  P LAY 
The Scarlet Brotherhood is an opportunistic faction.  It 
seeks to cause the maximum amount of disruption with 
the least amount of risk. 

The Brotherhood wants to tilt the town council in  its 
favor and install Anders as the most prominent member. 
Their first goal is to find  evidence of Gellan Primewa-
ter's involvement with the Sea P r inces and implicate 
his participation in the slave trade. Such evidence is not 
ha rd to find  once Gellan's dealings with the Sea Princes 
are revealed. 

The Brotherhood plans to use such accusations to 
increase tension in  town between the traditionalists and 
the loyalists, ignite a civil war, assassinate leaders on 
both sides. and then use Anders as a peacemaker. Then 
the Brotherhood plans to assassinate Anders, frame the 
Sea P rinces. and install Skerrin as his replacement as 
the town's foremost leader. Finally, Skerrin will  agitate 

for war and continue to help Brotherhood agents infil-
trate Keoland's towns in the south. 

If war does erupt, Brotherhood agents will work to 
ensure a long, drawn-out stalemate that grinds down 
both sides. Ideally, assassinations will pave the way for 
Brotherhood agents to assume high  positions in both 
realms, but if necessary, the Brotherhood will engage 
armies of mercenaries, humanoid tribes, and fanatics 
it has gathered to finish the job. They hope that the Sea 
Princes can then be transformed into a puppet state, 
allowing the Brotherhood to turn their attention to the 
rest of Keo land. 

SCARLET  B ROTH ERHO OD  SAMPLE  EVE NTS 

d20 
1-6 

Event 

The Brotherhood sli ps evidence of smuggling to 

the guard, causing several popular fishing boat 

owners to be arrested. 
The Brotherhood's agents spread rumors that the 

7- 10 

mine is on the verge of failure and the crown plans 
to award the dwarves  rulership of Saltmarsh as 

compensation. 

11-12  The Brotherhood blackmails  lngo the Drover and 

Keledek the Unspoken, two people in town with 
dark pasts, into th ei r service,  turning them into 
usefu l agents. 

13-14  Tainted grain delivered by a  merchant in  league 

with the Brotherhood leads to an outbreak of 

plague. 

15-16  The  Brotherhood uses kidnapping, blackmail, or 

other siniste r means to turn an important member 
of another faction into an al ly. 

17-18  A small band of escaped slaves arrives in  town. 

They claim that several sailors at the docks once 
worked as slave traders , prompting outraged calls 
for justice from  Anders. 
Pirate activity increases, bearing the unmistakable 

mark of the Sea  Princes. The Brotherhood's ships 
adopt Sea  Prince regalia to confuse the issue. 
Skerrin, growing bored and overconfident, assassi-
nates a prominent member of a faction and tries to 
frame the Sea Princes for the deed. 

19 

20 

SALTMARSH  OVERVIEW 
Saltmarsh's roughly five  thousand residents are pre-
dominantly human, with the dwarven mining contingent 
of about two hundred workers the largest non-human 
faction in town.  Elves and halflings draw no special no-
tice, since the Silverstand hosts a wood elf enclave and a 
few halfling villages are tucked in the hills around town. 
The residents react to other visitors, especially tieflings 
and dragonborn, with a mixture of curiosity and fear. 

L AW AN D  ORD ER 

Saltmarsh is a bastion of civilization in the midst of an 
untamed region. Without its stout defenders, it might 
have long ago fallen to the depredations of outsiders. 

( I !  \I  IF R  I  SAl r\I 

II 

M I LITIA AND  DEFENSE 
One hundred trained warriors serve in the town guard. 
Each of them wears studded leather armor marked with 
a town guard's badge 
and is armed with a club while patrolling in town. The 
guards work in pairs, operating from two guardhouses 
built near the road into Saltmarsh. A smaller station at 
the docks quells the fights that break out there nightly. 
The captain of the town guard is Eliander Fireborn. 

the green reed of Saltmarsh-

The guard also patrols the area around Saltmarsh on 
horseback. Groups assigned to this duty are more heav-
ily armed and armored; they wear chain mail and wield 
longswords and heavy crossbows. 

A militia of five hundred residents can be mustered to 
take up the defense of the town if it comes under attack. 
The militia members have undergone minimal training, 
since they are expected only to keep an enemy at bay 
until the king's forces arrive. 

A small force of marines watches over the docks and. 
if needed, can take to sea to meet the threat of a pirate 
ship or sahuagin incursion. The mari nes are hardened 
veterans of several battles against the Sea Princes. They 
are led by a married couple, Tom and Will Stoutly, vet-
erans who have fought dozens of engagements against 
pirates. raiders. and monsters. 

The guard is seen as something of a meddlesome 
force. since most of its members are drawn from the 
military veterans who migrated here with the crown's 
blessing. Townsfolk tend  to see them as brutish thugs. 
though they arc quick to call them when trouble arises. 

LOCAL LAW  ENFORCEMENT 
The town guard arrests lawbreakers and imprisons 
them in the town jail. In most cases, criminals pay a 
fine and are let go. Those who cannot pay are required 
to work off their debt, usually put to work sweeping 
streets or helping with construction projects. If a crime 
requires a trial, the town council hears evidence and 
renders a verdict. Crime breaks down into three basic 
categories in Saltmarsh. 

Petty Crime. Public unarmed brawling, pickpocket· 
ing, and other crimes that cause up to 50 gp in property 
damages are classified as petty crimes. The accused 
pays a fine of 2d6 gp. or one clay of hard labor per gold 
piece owed. 

Minor Crime. Armed assault, defined as any nonfatal 
attack made with a weapon, along with any other assault 
or property crimes that cause more than 50 gp in dam-
ages, but less than 250 gp, are minor crimes. The per-
petrator must pay a fine of JOO gp and serve  ld4 years in 
prison or at forced  labor. 

M'fjor Crime. Crimes more severe than those out-
lined above, including murder, are major crimes. The 
criminal faces 2d 10 years of imprisonment, though 
serious cases earn the death penalty. I n most instances. 
these crimes are dealt with in Seaton, the provincial 
capital located east of Saltmarsh. 

COMM ERCE 

Saltmarsh might be encrusted in sea salt and reek of 
rotting fish guts, but there is gold aplenty in the coffers 
of its citizens. For more than a century, the ships of 
Saltmarsh have worked the rich fishing grounds along 
the coast. Trade ships from near and far have been 
using the docks to unload their goods, and lately more 
ships have come to call as the dwarven mining opera-
tion grows. Smuggling has also long been a profitable 
business here. 

The dwarven mining operation promises to bring 
about a rapid growth in Sahmarsh's fortunes. Whether 
that's a good or a bad thing depends on who you ask. 
The merchants look forward to more business, but the 
fishers don't see how the mines will do anything to en-
rich their coffers. If anything, they fear that competition 
for fish will become more ferocious as the town grows. 

FISHING 
More folk in town work in the fishing industry than 
any other, and it has been  the backbone of Saltmarsh 
for generations. The wealthier families own their own 
boats, while less well-to-do fol k hire out to work as 
deckhands. The work is difficult and dangerous, but a 
smart deckhand can save money for several years and 
eventually buy their own boat. That promise of earned 
prosperity is important to the townsfolk, and they see 
newcomers as a threat to it. 

TRADING 
The wealthiest families in town own large trading ves-
sels that they use to ship goods across the Azure Sea. 
Saltmarsh exports other foodstuffs from the farms 
around town. Most manufactured goods, except for 
rope, nets. and other items created locally to support the 
fishing industry, are imported into town. 

SMUGGLING 
As a sleepy backwater town, Saltmarsh has long been 
an  ideal market for illegal goods. Pirates, agents of the 
Sea Princes, and Keoish  nobles looking to evade the 
king's taxes have all helped fuel a bustling local black 
market. Some fishing boats meet ships at sea co  load 
and unload illegal goods, while other cartels conduct 
business at isolated points along the shore near town. 
The locals see smuggling as a victimless crime and 
resent  the crown's growing insistence on cracking 
down on  it. 

MINING 
The mine outside town is a new development. Despite 
the skepticism of the locals, the mine has started to 
yield silver in growing quantities. and the dwarves are 
convinced that the nearby cliffs are rich with gold. If the 
mine takes off. Saltmarsh could transform into a sprawl-
ing boomtown overnight. 

D OCKS 

The docks of Saltmarsh are the beating heart of the 
town. The fishing trade and related commerce that keep 
the town alive arc based here. 

<.llAP"l I  kt Is \l  I 

12 

The docks have recently undergone a series of expan-
sions intended to lure larger merchant vessels into the 
port. Two primary piers are used to load and unload 
large ships, while a series of smaller ones accommodate 
humbler vessels. 

This part of Saltmarsh is almost constantly busy; 
it's rare to see the large piers unoccupied. Guarded 
warehouses are a common sight in  this district, and it 
is considered suspicious behavior to walk near those 
places at night. 

The docks are a hotbed of rumors and gossip. The 
sailors and laborers who frequent this area are bored, 
eager for  news, and inclined to share what they have 
heard. A character who spends a few  hours asking for 
news can learn the current scuttlebutt. The "Dock Ru-
mors" table below can be an inspiration for the sort of 
whispers characters might hear. 

DOCK  RUMORS 

dlO  Rumor 

The crown dispatched a caravan with  enough gold to 
commission six new wa rships. It went missing near 
the Hool Marshes. 
Drow traders posing as surface elves have been doing 
business in  town. 
Someone's sabotaging fishing boats. It's those 
dwarves-
they want to take over! 
The king's agents have infiltrated town.  It's only a 
matter of time before they remove the council and 
replace them with foppish  nobles. 
That tiefling who's looking to buy crocodile skulls 
can' t be up to anything good. 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6  A couple of fishing boats have gone missing. If the 

sea devi ls aren't behind  it,  I'm a merman. 

8 

7  A big critter's been going through everyone's trash 
at night. Something from the swamp, I'd  reckon-
maybe a troll. 
Sometimes on a moonless night, you can meet the 
ghost of a drowned sailor trying to get home.  Lead 
one to their home, and you'll get a wish.  Fail, and 
they'll strangle you. 
If you see someone at the docks wearing a red  cloak 
after dark, slip them a copper piece and they'll con-
nect you with smugglers from  beyond this world who 
can sell you  anything you've dreamed of. 
It's only a matter ohime before the dwarves dig too 
deep and  unleash something  horrible. 

9 

10 

Moon OF THE TowN 
Saltmarsh is a place of constant energy. Pew of the com-
mon folk are so affluent that they can afford to sit idle. At 
sunrise, the docks bustle with fishers preparing to ven-
ture out for the day. When they return, they spend time 
unloading their catch, mending nets, and repairing their 
vessels. The merchants move their ships into the docks 
once the fishing fl eet is out for the day, and dock workers 
rush to load a nd unload goods before the boats return. 
The daily e nergy and bustle carries over into rowdy 
nights. The fishe rs chug ale and swap stories, each seek-

ing to outdo the other with their tales of the sea. Fights 
erupt as rival crews cross paths, and the town guard 
keeps a high profile in hopes of maintaining the peace. 
The quantity and quality of the catch in recent days 
goes a long way toward determining the town's mood 
and general atmosphere. A bountiful catch for a few 
days in a row puts all the fishers in a celebratory mood, 
while a poor harvest that lasts more than a couple of 
days leads to frayed tempers and  brawling. 

Use the following table to determine the mood around 

the village, rolling once every few days or choosing as 
you see fit. 

S ALTMARSH  Mooo 

d20 
1-6 

Result 
Poor Catch. The townsfolk are frustrated and prone 
to bickering; everyone is  in  a bad  mood. 

7-12  Bountiful Catch.  Music and merriment echo 
thro ugh  town as everyone celebrates. 

13-20  Typical Catch. Overall, the fishers  are content with 

their recent results.  Here and there, crews boast of 
good  pickings or bemoan their poor haul. 

LOCATIONS  I N  SALTMARSH 

Here is a s ummary of the notable places in Saltmars h, 
as depicted on map 1.1. 

1.  C rTY GATE 
Saltmarsh was built on the ruins of a much older set-
tlement, sometimes called Old Saltmarsh or the Old 
Harbor. One sign of this is that the town has a small 
stretch of wall and a s ingle town gate secured by two 
or three guards. The wall is old, crumbling, and badly 
worn by centuries of rain and wind coming in  from the 
Azure Sea. 

T he garrison at the gate consists of older guards, 
those nearing retirement and unwilling or unable to 
walk patrols. T heir eyes are s harp, and they are prone 
to gossip. A pull from a flask of whiskey or a few s ilver 
pieces can pers uade them to provide information on re-
cent visitors. 

2.  B ARRACKS AN D J A IL 
Built on a low hill, the Saltmarsh barracks are also its 
jail. It is one of the few structures in Saltmarsh with an 
underground level. The jailer, Kraddok Stonehorn (LG 
male human gladiator), is an old comrade ofEliander. 
He is a stickler for the rules, and Eliander trusts him 
with his  life. 

T he jail in the cellar consists of two sections. A single 
large chamber holds drunks, brawling fishers, and other 
troublemakers who need to cool off for a few  nights. The 
lock is high quality (requiring a successful DC 20 Dex-
terity check with thieves' tools to pick), and the door is 
built of stout wood with a small window to allow guards 
to check in on their charges. 

A s ide passage holds six individual cells with high-
er-quality locks (each requiring a successful DC 25 
Dexterity check with thieves· tools to pick) and  solid 
doors that lack windows. One cell  was long ago warded 
against both teleportation and divination magic. Spell-

(  flAl'"fER  l  I 

M  \llSll 

casters are kept here, blindfolded and manacled. Occa-
sionally Eliander uses this cell to conduct meetings that 
require the utmost secrecy. 

The jail is used to hold prisoners with sentences of 
up to a year, but those facing longer terms or sentenced 
to hard labor are transferred to the prison at Seaton, a 
larger, heavily fortified port to the east. 

At any given time, 2d4 guards, led by a veteran. keep 

watch here. 

3 . THE WICKER GOAT 
Bearing the dubious honor of being the oldest tavern in 
town, the Wicker Goat is owned by Lankus Kurrid (NG 
male human guard), a retired officer of the Keoish army 
who caters to the dwarven miners and town guard. The 
two-story building has sleeping quarters for rent on the 
upper floor,  usually sufficient to accommodate the slow 
stream of travelers making their way through Saltmarsh 
on the way to somewhere else. 

Those who seek an audience with Manistrad can find 
her here when she's not working at the mine. She some-
times has need for adventurers to help keep the mining 
operation secure. Roll a d6 and consult the table below 
to determine the nature of an available task. 

d6 

2 
3 

4 

5 

6 

Task 
Guard a mining shaft that was recently attacked  by 
duerga r from  the Underdark. 
Escort supply wagons moving to and from  Saltmarsh. 
Explore a tunnel discovered in the mines that bears 
signs of troglodyte infestation. 
Find a group of miners who went missing under· 
ground and  may have been snatched by slavers. 
Track down a thief who stole a shipment of expensive 
mining gear in  Saltmarsh. 
Locate the source of zombies and skeletons that have 
been sighted in  the mines recently. 

4.  ELIANDER'S H OUSE 
Tucked at the edge of town and overlooking the sea, 
Eliander's home provides him with a relaxing sanctuary 
away from the bustle of Saltmarsh. Eliander maintains 
the largest library in  town; during his days of military 
service, he made a hobby of collecting rare books. lf 
the characters need information on the history of Salt-
marsh, they might find  it in Eliander's archives. 

5.  MINING  COMPANY HEADQUARTERS 
Once a mansion owned by a local noble family, this 
building was purchased by the crown and serves as the 
dwarven mining company's headquarters in Saltmarsh. 
Manistrad Copperlocks stays here when she must do 
business in town: otherwise. several dwarf clerks work 
here during the day, logging deliveries at the docks to be 
transported to the mine and arranging for the processed 
ore to be loaded on trade ships bound for distant ports. 
Rumors abound of a vault hidden beneath the build-
ing. In the cellar, the dwarves have dug a chamber in 
the earth that is sealed with a heavy iron door and a fine 
lock (requiring a successful DC 25 Dexterity check with 
thieves' tools to pick). The dwarves keep their funds 
here- about 1.000 gp in  coins and gems, guarded by 

four suits of animated armor and a rug of smothering 
left in the vault. The constructs do not attack dwarves 
and can be disabled for 10 minutes if the command 
word "Tatalot" is spoken to them. Manistrad and her 
close advisors know the command word. 

6.  KELEDEK T OWER 
This three-story tower is home to the town's resident 
sage and wizard, Keledek the Unspoken (LE male hu-
man mage). Keledek's dusky skin, bald head, and bright 
red silk turban-not to mention his height of nearly 7 
feet-make him an unmistakable figure in  town. 

Keledek came to town years ago from Ket. a distant 
kingdom held in a mix of contempt, mistrust, and fear 
by the locals. Rumor around town claims that speaking 
his name aloud allows Keledek to eavesdrop on a con-
versation for a short time. In truth, Keledek relies on his 
familia r, an imp named Zivmal, to spy on the townsfolk. 
Keledek is a close associate of Gellan Primewater. He 
uses his magic to help a gang of smugglers based out of 
the nearby Tower of Zenopus in exchange for  rare spell 
components and magic items. 

7.  FAITHFUL QUARTERMASTERS  OF Iuz 
A trade delegation led  by Captain Xendros (CE female 
tiefting priest) has come to Saltmarsh to acquire large 
quantities of fish  (salted and preserved for  transport) in 
the name ofluz, a mighty cambion and demigod who 
rules much of the distant north. luz's realm does not 
produce enough food  to feed all its citizens, so it relies 
on imports for the rest, and Saltmarsh is one of its ma-
jor suppliers. 

The minions of Juz have only rarely come into direct 

conflict with Keoland, and its ongoing war with Keo-
land's rivals makes the nation an acceptable trade part-
ner in  the eyes of the king. The emissaries from  Iuz pay 
on  time and they buy shiploads of fish at once, so no one 
inquires too closely into the captain's sepulchral voice 
or her penchant for wearing gold jewelry etched with 
grim designs. 

Xendros sometimes has need for adventurers. She is 

particu larly interested in tracking down an apparatus 
of Kwalish. If news of one reaches her. she offers magic 
items to those willing to recover it for her (short of an 
artifact, she can supply anything if given enough time to 
send word to Tuz). If her offer is rebuked. agents of Iuz 
conjure a team of demonic assassins to take the device 
and spirit it back to luz's realm. 

8.  EMPTY  NET 
Partially supported by stilts driven into the harbor 
waters. this rickety tavern is purportedly a haven for 
smugglers, mercenaries, assassins and even pirates. 
The owner, Kreb Shenker (NE male human thug), takes 
coin from  anyone and asks no questions. Troublemakers 
are thrown out the door, over the railing, and into the 
reeking harbor. Characters looking to carouse find  this 
the best place for a rowdy night of drinking and brawl-
ing. The town guard comes here only if called. 

Kreb works with Gellan Primewater to screen pro-
spective buyers and sellers for smuggled wares. He also 
recruits local toughs and sailors for Gellan's ventures, 
but he prefers those who are business-minded and less 
likely to cause trouble. 

11 

C'B\P1ERI  SAlTM\R:O.H 

... 

SALTMARSH 

-

••  t.-

.. 
.. ... 

·--

.. __.. 

"--V-w 

100 

o  I zr 

500 
I 

1000 
I 

2000 

!feet 

MllP  1.L 

•  VILLAGE  OF 

SAL T'>IARSH 

9.  GREEN MARKET 
A strip of open land that is the place for everything that 
isn't fish, salt, or nautical wares, this market stretches 
among a dozen stalls down to the bridge. A few goats. 
eggs, cloth, marsh plants, and pots are available, as well 
as the occasional mule or ox for hauling carts. 

10.  SHARKFIN  B RIDGE 
This single large bridge spans the river, with shops and 
homes along its length. The bridge predates the village 
and is large enough for laden carts to pass two abreast. 
Elves and fey folk feel vaguely nauseated when they 
cross the bridge, owing to an ancient curse placed on it 
long before Keoland rose to existence. 

11.  KESTER'S  LEATHER Gooos 
Kiorna Kester (LN female  human commoner) runs this 
tannery. where she produces smooth, colorful leather 
for every purpose and sells both the cured hides and 
items she fashions from it. Kiorna is keenly interested 
in acquiring hides from exotic creatures to craft into 
expensive leather. She pays a fee in gold pieces equal 
to  100 times a creature's challenge rating for the intact 
hide of any beast or monstrosity of challenge rating 3 
or higher. Harvesting the hide from such a creature re-
quires an intact carcass, an hour of work. and a success-
ful  DC 15 Dexterity (Sleight of Hand) or Wisdom (Sur-
vival) check to preserve it in top condition for Kiorna's 
purposes. On a failed check.  the hide docs not meet Ki-
orna's standards but can still be sold for a lesser price. 

12.  HOOLWATCH  TOWER 
This 60-foot-tall tower was the first defensive building of 
Saltmarsh. and it still serves as an armory and lookout 
as well as the official base oft he town guard. Eliander 
spends most of his time here in his duties as com-
mander of the guard. He sometimes has need for adven-
turers, and at such times he posts jobs on a board hang-
ing by the tower's entrance. Roll a d6 and consult the 
table below to determine the nature of an available task. 

d6  Goa l 

Foes 

Location 

Recover sto len 

Goblins 

Hool Marshes 

2 

3 
4 

5 
6 

Wild  beasts 

goods 
Apprehend a 
wanted criminal 
Rescue a captive 
Defeat a threat 
Find a  lost patrol 
Scout a dangerous  Un dead 
area 

Bandits 
Cultists 
Bullywugs 

Hool Marshes 

Dreadwood 
Dreadwood 
Drowned Forest 
Azure Sea 

13.  THE SNAPPING LINE 
This popular inn and tavern is bui lt from the planks and 
hulls of half a dozen decommissioned fishing ships. Its 
decor is predictably nautical in theme. and its sleeping 
rooms are plain but comfortable renditions of a ship's 
cabins. The smell of fish  has never been scrubbed from 
its walls, and chose who stay the night find their belong-
ings steeped in the scent, which lasts for several days. 
Sailors and fishers gather here to trade stories and 
drink into the night. 

Ill 

<,JI  \l'fl·R  I 

rM.-\RSll 

The Snapping Line is run by a young woman named 
Hanna Rist (NG female human commoner),  who comes 
from a family of well-known lobster catchers. The Rist 
family also makes a spirit from lobster meat and pota-
toes called claw wine; it is, to put it mildly, an acquired 
taste. Hanna employs several former dockhands to keep 
peace in her bar. 

14.  COUNCIL HALL 
This large brick build ing contains the offices of the town 
council and the chamber where they meet to discuss 
the town business. The hall is built from sturdy stone 
from the nearby cliffs and a variety of hardwood from 
the nearby Hool Marshes. A wooden sign depicting a 
net filled with fish hangs above the double doors lead-
ing into the hall. A small tower rises from the building. 
housing a horn at the top, which is blown to announce 
the beginning of a council session or other signifi-
cant events. 

The town has a sturdy but weatherbeaten platform 
and gallows in front of the hall for use in the event of an 
execution. Such punishments are rare, but when they do 
occur, they draw a large crowd. In any given week,  there 
is a 2 percent chance of an execution, usually of some 
bandit or other non-native ne'er-do-well. 

15.  WEEKLY MARKET 
Built around the first well dug for the fishers in the 
town's early days is a large market square where mer-
chants of all descriptions gather on the first day of each 
week to sell their wares. Initially established to sell fish, 
the market has grown to include a wide variety of goods. 
The center area of the square contains a dozen long 
tables where shoppers can eat communally. Items from 
the Player's Handbook costing up to 150 gp are avail-
able for purchase here. 

16.  PRJMEWATER MANSTON 
Gellan Primewater maintains a large mansion right 
on the docks, allowing him to oversee his ships from 
his upstairs window. He sometimes leans out to shout 
orders or answer questions for his captains and crews, 
his booming voice echoing over the docks. The location 
or his house also makes it convenient for his smugglers; 
the crews slip goods through a secret entrance that 
leads to his mansion's cellar. 

The mansion's most notable feature is its grand entry-
way and feast hall. Gellan hosts at least one extravagant 
feast per week. headlined by food and drink bought in 
distant ports. His cook, a young gnome named Feliza. 
sometimes hires adventurers to find rare herbs, meats, 
and other ingredients for her dishes. 

17.  THE 0WARVEN ANVIL 
The blacksmith's forge has a single anvil with a clear 
sign of dwarven origins, and a backlog of orders ten 
miles long. The human smiths make hooks, nails, har-
poons, knives, fishing weights. and much more all day. 
Their master smith is an elderly. dark-skinned woman 
named Mafera (LG female human common er ): her son, 
Jasker (LG male human common er).  is her best jour-
neyman. A small shrine to Morad in can be found under 
the eaves as well. though it is somewhat neglected. 

Some of the dwarves associated with the new mining 

operation wouJd  like to know how a human came into 
ownership of such fine dwarven tools. A few suspect 
treachery and might hire the characters to break into 
this place and make off with anything that "rightfully" 
belongs to the dwarves. 

18.  FISHMONGERS'  PLANTS 
The large fish-processing buildings in this area reek of 
prosperity (and fish). All are engaged in salting or brin-
ing the catch brought in by the fleet. Most of the time 
these places are busy, and the workers have little time 
for chatter. 

19. 0WELAND HOUSE 
The Oweland family has owned this sprawling man-
sion for generations. Despite the family's wealth, the 
building is a sprawling collection of new construction, 
expansions, and additions. Each generation of the family 
has added to the building to accommodate the clan's 
growth. The family takes in fishers who have fallen on 
hard times, sharing their wealth with others until they 
can recover. 

The sprawling, mazelike interior of the Oweland 
house has spawned rumors of hidden passages and 
secret chambers within it. The fami ly once engaged in 
smuggling, and several hidden tunnels run from the 
cellars beneath the mansion to points out of town. Sker-
rin Wavechaser has discovered a few  that are unknown 
even to the family. 

20.  SOLMOR HOUSE 
The Solmor family owns several buildings in this mod-
est complex. The largest is the personal mansion of the 
Solmor family. Three smaller buildings house servants, 
employees of the family's trading fleet, and secure stor-
age for expensive goods. 

The Solmor family maintains a cadre of a dozen 
guards led by four vete ra ns (all LE humans). These 
mercenaries report to Skerrin, and though they out-
wardly serve the Solmors, their loyalty is to the Scarlet 
Brotherhood. 

Despite the Brotherhood's infiltration of this place, 
Skerrin takes pains to avoid  leaving any incriminating 
evidence lying about. His eidetic memory allows him to 
burn any notices and reports he receives after reading 
them, though at times he can be careless and leave par-
tially burned scraps of paper in his garbage. 

21.  MARINERS'  GUILDHALL 
The mariners' guild serves all the towns along the coast, 
providing a bunk and a meal for sailors passing through. 
Sea captains in search of a crew stop here, as do others 
seekjng news from afar. The guildhall is an excellent 
place to discuss seafaring. as well as the various threats 
to navigation along the coast. 

22.  !NGO THE  DROVER'S HOUSE 
General Illinar the Fifth is a disgraced human general 
of the Great Kingdom. currently living in Saltmarsh and 
trying to stay one step ahead of the Overking's assassins 
after he supported an unsuccessful bid to usurp the 
throne. He goes by the name lngo the Drover here and is 
slowly building a reputation as a good source for guards, 

marines, and muscle when sailing through difficult wa-
ters. His only link to his prior life is his campaign med-
als- souvenfrs that remind him of his former glories 
even if their discovery would reveal his past. He keeps a 
s hield guardian in his home, a last, hidden resort to foil 
any attempts on his life. 

lngo (LN male human gladiator) tries to keep a low 
profile. He avoids taking sides in any conflict, but if his 
cover comes under pressure, he can be compelled to 
throw in with one faction or the other. He has a good 
friendship with Eliander. The two sometimes meet for 
a drink and share stories of their experiences in  the 
military. Although  fngo tries to keep his stories vague 
enough to maintain his cover, Eliander suspects his 
true origin. 

23 .  CARPENTERS'  GUILDHALL 
Run by a snobby gnome named Jilar Kanklesten (N 
female gnome commoner),  the carpenters' guild has 
plenty of work building houses, assembling fish  barrels, 
repairing docks, and much more. The whole building is 
a marvel of workmanship, made without a single nail. 
jilar is obsessed with rare woods; she pays handsomely 
for adventurers to make expeditions in search of specific 
trees in the Hool  Marshes, the Drowned Porest, and the 
Dreadwood. Roll a d8 and consult the table below if the 
characters seek work from her. 

d8  Object 

The branch of a tree used to hang a murderer 
Splinters from  a tree struck by lightning 

2 
3  A shard of a treant's bark, given freely 
4  A wooden stake used to impale a vampire 
5 
6 
7 

Tendrils harvested from  a shambling mound 
Deck planks stolen from  a pirate ship 
Log taken from  the Hool Marshes,  transported in 
swamp water 

8  Wood from a shipwreck 

24.  CRABBER'S  COVE 
Just east of the docks, built along the shores of a se-
cluded bay, are a handful of buildings known collectively 
as Crabber's Cove. The buildings are weathered, aban-
doned by the residents of Saltmarsh years ago. S ince 
then, thousands of crabs have taken up residence in 
the crumbling remains. Crabbers from Saltmarsh are 
cautious about the cove, as more than one overeager 
fisher has disappeared into the clacking darkness. never 
to be seen again. Unknown to the folk of Saltmarsh, 
a vampire named Xolec is trapped in a hidden cellar 
beneath one of the old cabins. Xolec was buried in an 
ancient tomb, unleashed on Saltmarsh decades ago 
when his sealed coffin was brought to town by a trader 
and opened. A cleric of St. Cuthbert confronted him, but 
she wasn't able to destroy him. Instead, she trapped him 
here by means of a powerful curse: Xolec can leave the 
cellar only if someone pure of heart carries him from it. 
Xolec is best left trapped, except for one detail: by a 
stroke of fate, agents of the Scarlet Brotherhood use the 
cabin above him for clandestine meetings. He  knows the 
full  details of their operarion and Skerrin's role in it. He 
trades this information for his freedom if confronted by 
adventurers. 

CHAPTER  l 

''°'I TM 

PRO CAN, SAILO R OF S EA  ANO  SKY 
Procan is a chaotic neutral deity of the sea and weather. 
He offers his clerics access to the Tempest domain. He 
is  embodied in  the sudden storm that overtakes a ship, 
battering it with  monstrous waves and howling winds that 
give way to peaceful waters and calm weather in  the space 
ofa moment. 

Procan's domain is  the sea. and whatever the oceans 
touch, he bears witness to. His mood shifts to darkness 
as he witnesses a brutal murder on the docks of a squalid 
port, then lifts in  pride as he watches a brave mariner leap 
into the sea and save a drowning child. Every story of the 
oceans courses through his  mind, and he in each moment 
curses and blesses mortals for their endless follies,  hero-
ism, and hatreds. 

When  the sea reaches its limit at the shore, so too does 

Procan's power. His clerics and priests rarely venture 
inland, and he cares little for what happens beyond his wa-
ters. At  sea, he expects sacrifices in  the form of fine food, 
potent alcohol, or valuable treasures thrown overboard 
at the start of a voyage.  Due  to this ritual,  Procan holds 
all  treasures lost at sea as part of his domain.  He curses 
those who plunder shipwrecks without the blessings of his 
clerics, dogging their steps with wretched weather until his 
attention is  drawn elsewhere. 

Procan's clerics reAect their deity's chaotic nature. They 
seek omens of his moods in  the weather and sky,  and mir-
ror their own demeanor to match their deity's. 

25.  T HE  L EAP 
The Leap is an outcropping of rock nearly a hundred 
feet above the churning water below. Several stone 
benches stand near this precipitous edge, and a few 
stone markers sit in the tall grass nearby. 

Traditionally. the people of Sahmarsh leap from the 

cliffs into the water below when a loved one drowns 
at sea. The jump is usually not fatal: the water below 
the Leap is free of rocks. and it is a short swim back 
to dry land. 

26. T EMPLE  OF  PROCAN 
Services at this long-standing sea god's temple are 
well attended. The congregation  is led  by a one-legged 
former whaler: Wellgar Brinehanded (CG male human 
priest), an older human man with a sharp memory for 
every storm, lost ship, and enormous catch ever brought 
into Saltmarsh harbor. He knows many fanciful stories 
of shipwrecks. lucky escapes. and famous captains. Mat-
ters ashore rarely interest him, but the temple and its 
bell tower are also served by a half-dozen novitiates and 
laypeople who keep things running smoothly. 

Wellgar uses the blessings of Procan to seek out ship-

wrecks in order to recover the remains of sailors for a 
proper burial. He is willing to trade cleric spells of up to 
5th level. including raise dead. in return for recovery of 
the remains he seeks. 

27.  SALTMARSH  CEMETERY 
The town's cemetery is well-kept, but many of its graves 
are little more than memorial stones laid for those who 
died at sea.  Krag (NG male half-ore com m oner ) is the 
town gravedigger, as well as something of a town histo-
rian and local loremaster. He has conducted extensive 
research into the folk buried here and events in the re-

(  HAPTP.H  I 

gion. He can be an invaluable resource for adventurers 
seeking information and is especially helpful to those 
who can help him with his research. 

In his spare time, Krag helps organize and translate 

Eliander's library. He keeps a room in the guard com-
mander's home, and the two are close friends. 

28. WINSTON'S  STORE 
The owner of this establishment. a rerired rogue, knows 
a great deal about the Hool Marshes. Winston (N male 
halfling bandit) spent years as an outlaw lurking in the 
marshes before a raid on an army payroll caravan netted 
him enough loot to open a business. The increased pres-
ence of law enforcement in Saltmarsh has him on edge, 
and he is concerned that his involvement in the heist 
will emerge. In the meantime, he does business with 
sailors, adventurers, and those who need "solid goods 
at honest prices." as he often says. Winston has a few 
maps of the marshes, and those who intend to explore 
that area often consult with him for guidance. 

29.  SEA GROVE OF 0BAD - HAI 
Open to the air and set in a grove outside town, the 
sea-grove is a gathering place for seagulls, sailors, and 
swamp folk, as well as an  information market for traders 
and trappers. Ferrin Kastilar (NG male halfling druid). 
a somewhat melancholy individual of middle years, 
tends the shrine with his bullfrog companion. Lorys. 

Ferrin always keeps an eye out for rumors of aberra-
tions in the wild. He also has contacts with the elves of 
the Dreadwood. and they send word to him if a monster 
escapes that forest and heads in the direction of Salt-
marsh. If news of an aberration reaches him, he hires 
adventurers to stalk and kill the creature. 

30.  STANDING  STONES 
Two enormous runcstones stand on this island. In 
ages past, a siren was chained to the stones here and 
sacrificed by an evil human tribe as an offering to the 
sea. Since then, the fishing in the region has flourished. 
The siren's spirit was captured in the stones, and her 
captivating song continues to echo through the weave 
and draw fish to the area. The siren's sisters and allies, 
among them a powerful djinn, have scoured the planes 
in search of her spirit for centuries. 

DOWNTIME ACTIVIT IES 
Saltmarsh provides a haven for adventurers between 
expeditions, and the characters can spend that time 
engaged in various tasks around town. The following 
options build on the downtime activities discussed in 
chapter 8 of the Player's Handbook. Characters can pur-
sue them to make some additional money or strengthen 
their ties to Saltmarsh. 

The activities given here are based on  the ones pre-
sented in Xanathar's Guide to Everything. lfyou have 
that supplement. consider using the guidelines for rivals 
and the complications attached to some of the activities 
given in that book. You can also offer other activities 
as you see fit. The ones detailed below are specific to 
Saltmarsh. 

