A GRIM AND PERILOUS GUIDE FOR KNIGHTS,
MERCENARIES, AND SOLDIERS OF ALL STRIPES

1

UP IN ARMSCREDITS

 Design and Writing: Dave Allen, Eoin Burke, Pádraig Murphy, Ciarán O’Brien, Dylan Owen,
Clive Oldfield, Anthony Ragan, Simon Wileman

 Illustration: Mauro Alocci, Benoît Blary, Alessandro Boer, Domenico Cava, Álvaro Jiménez Hernández, Dániel Kovács, 
Antonio De Luca, Yugin Maffioli, Sam Manley, Andrea Tentori Montalto, JG O’Donoghue, Scott Purdy

 Cover: Sam Manley 

 Layout: Mary Lillis 

 Editors: Lynne M. Meyer, Christopher Walz 

 Proofreaders: Eoin Burke, Lynne M. Meyer

 Cubicle 7 Business Support: Tracey Bourke, Elaine Connolly, Jennifer Crispin, Andrena Hogan, 

Donna King, Kieran Murphy, and Cian Whelan
 Cubicle 7 Creative Team: Dave Allen, Emmet Byrne, David F Chapman, Walt Ciechanowski,
Tim Cox, Zak Dale-Clutterbuck,  Runesael Flynn, Dániel Kovács, Tim Huckelbery, Elaine Lithgow, TS Luikart, 
Dominic McDowall, Sam Manley, Pádraig Murphy,  Ceíre O’Donoghue, JG O’Donoghue, and Christopher Walz

 Creative Director: Emmet Byrne

 Publisher: Dominic McDowall

Special thanks to the Games Workshop Team

Published by: Cubicle 7 Entertainment Ltd, Unit 6, Block 3, 

City North Business Campus, Co. Meath, Ireland. Printed in China.

No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any  
form by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording or otherwise without the  
prior permission of the publishers.

Warhammer Fantasy Roleplay 4th Edition © Copyright Games Workshop Limited 2022. Warhammer Fantasy Roleplay 4th Edition, the Warhammer 

Fantasy Roleplay 4th Edition logo, GW, Games Workshop, Warhammer, The Game of Fantasy Battles, the twin-tailed comet logo, and all associated 

logos, illustrations, images, names, creatures, races, vehicles, locations, weapons, characters, and the distinctive likeness thereof, are either ® or TM, 

and/or  ©  Games Workshop  Limited,  variably  registered  around  the  world,  and  used  under  licence.  Cubicle  7  Entertainment  and  the  Cubicle  7 

Entertainment logo are trademarks of Cubicle 7 Entertainment Limited. All rights reserved.

2

Last Edited: 22 March 2022  

 
 
 
CONTENTS

UP IN ARMS

THE CULT OF MYRMIDIA

MOUNTED COMBAT

An introduction to Up in Arms, your guide to 
Warriors of the Old World.

An introduction to Myrmidia, the goddess of 
Strategy and Warfare, her followers and faith.

Updated and clarified rules for fighting from 
horseback — or atop more exotic beasts.

Introduction ................................................4
On the Boil ..................................................5

SOLDIERS OF ALL STRIPES

Military life in the Empire, the experiences of 
Soldiers, and new military Careers.

Armies of the Empire ..................................6
Uniforms and Equipment............................8
Everyday Life ..............................................8
On Campaign ..............................................9
New Careers ................................................9

KNIGHTS OF THE EMPIRE

A guide to the Knightly Orders of the Old 
World, their culture, and new Knightly Careers.

A Knight’s Trappings ................................ 29
Careers....................................................... 31
Freelance .................................................... 31
Knights of the Blazing Sun ....................... 32
Knights of the White Wolf ....................... 34
Knights Panther ........................................ 36

DOGS OF WAR

A guide to Mercenaries, their role in warfare in 
the Old World, and new Mercenary Careers.

The Faith in War ....................................... 61
The Cult in the Empire ............................. 65
Figures important to the Cult ................... 66
Beliefs ........................................................ 68
Strictures of the Cult ................................. 70
Relations with other Cults ......................... 71
Worshippers .............................................. 72
Initiation .................................................... 73
Minor Orders of Myrmidia ....................... 75
Zealots of Myrmidia .................................. 75
Temples ..................................................... 76
Sacred Relics.............................................. 77
Priest of Myrmidia .................................... 78
Miracles of Myrmidia ................................ 79

Animal Care ............................................ 105
Expanded Mounted Combat Rules ......... 105
Training ................................................... 106
My Province for a Horse! ........................ 107
Exotic Mounts ......................................... 107

HIRE ‘EM — FIRE ‘EM

A guide to Hirelings, their use in games, and 
tables for generating unique NPCs.

Hired Goons ........................................... 110
Hired Brains ............................................ 110
Hireling Profiles  ..................................... 113

AN ALTERNATIVE
APPROACH TO INJURY

ARTILLERY AND DAMAGE
TO STRUCTURES

Updated rules for Critical Wounds and Injuries.

New Siege Weapons and updated rules for 
damage to structures.

Wounds, Critical Wounds, and Death ....... 80
Wounds ..................................................... 80
Death ......................................................... 82
Critial Wound Tables ................................ 83

THE QUARTERMASTER’S STORE

Sample Structures .................................... 118
Attacks on Structures .............................. 120
Siege Weapons ........................................ 122
New Weapon Qualities or Flaws ............. 125

PURSUITS OF EXCELLENCE

New Equipment and Weapons to outfit the 
soldier with enough coin to afford it.

More detailed rules for Pursuits.

Mercenaries ............................................... 40
Land Of Mercenaries ................................ 41
Origins ...................................................... 42
The Role of Mercenaries ............................ 42
Careers....................................................... 44

TILEA AND TILEAN CHARACTERS

A guide to lands of Tilea, a timeline of its storied 
history, and rules for creating Tilean Characters.

Tilea, the Land and her People.................. 50
Tilean Mercenaries In The Empire............ 55
Creating Tilean Characters ....................... 55
Tilea Timeline ........................................... 57

A Soldier’s Burden ..................................... 87
New Qualities and Flaws .......................... 89
The Shield Quality .................................... 90
Basic Weapons ........................................... 90
Shields ....................................................... 92
Cavalry Weapons ....................................... 93
Fencing Weapons ...................................... 93
Brawling Weapons ..................................... 94
Flail Weapons ............................................ 95
Parrying Weapons ..................................... 95
Polearms .................................................... 96
Two-Handed Weapons ............................. 97
Ammunition .............................................. 98
Gunpowder Weapons ................................ 99
Blackpowder Weapons ............................ 101
Blackpowder Ammunition ...................... 102
Engineering Weapons ............................. 103

Breaking from Combat ............................ 127
Pursuits .................................................... 127
Complex Pursuits .................................... 128
Obstacles ................................................. 130

AI: GROUP ADVANTAGE
Group Advantage .................................... 133

AII: WARRIOR ENDEAVOURS
Warrior Endeavours ................................ 137

AIII: NEW AND UPDATED 
TALENTS
New and Updated Talents ....................... 140

Index........................................................ 142

3

VIVIIXXXIXIIIIIIIVIIVIIIIV4

IUP IN ARMS•

INTRODUCTION 

•

UP IN ARMS

The  Warrior  Class  contains  some  of  the  most  iconic 

careers in Warhammer Fantasy Roleplay. This is as book 

intended  for  GMs  and  players  of  Warrior  Characters. 

The  book  contains  information  on  what  it  is  like  to 

be  a  common  soldier  of  the  Imperial  State  Troops,  or 

a  mercenary,  willing  to  fight  for  whatever  province 

can  afford  their  fees.  An  examination  of  the  Empire’s 

many  orders  of  Knighthood  provides  comprehensive 

information on the nation’s elite cavalry.

A  lengthy  article  on  the  Cult  of  Myrmidia,  with  more 

attention lavished on the goddess than before. Her links 

with  characters  past  and  present  is  explained.  How  did 

she  inspire  Leonardo  di  Miragliano?  Did  she  show 

Ennio Mordini how to cheat death? How have her cult 

incorporated  the  tactical  advice  of  outsiders  to  the  cult, 

such as the High Elf Allurian or Berndt Lavaspear?

For  the  first  time  a  detailed  history  of  Tilea  considers 

the  development  of  the  Myrmidian  cult  alongside 

varied legends regarding the foundations of that land. A 

gazeteer and timeline of Tilea helps introduce this sunny 

southern realm, and the many regiments of mercenaries 

raised there.

5

IOn the BOilThe second section of the book consists of alterative and expanded rules with a focus on combat and the Warrior Class. These rules fall into two categories.New or expanded rules are given for Advantage, Pursuits, Critical Injuries, Weapons, Damaging Structures and Mounted Combat. These rules sections are intended to stand in for the relevant rules in the WFRP Core Rulebook.  Additional rules are given for Endeavours, and Class Talents. These are intended to be options that GMs can add to the existing rules if they see fit.  In all cases these rules should only be implemented if the GM agrees to their use.At the end of the book is a summary of Talents that require rethinking in the light of other rule changes. For example the Flee! Talent will have more utility using the new Pursuit rules than it does in the WFRP Core Rulebook, and the Crew Commander Talent is entirely new to the Artillerist Career. Rather than scatter these Talents throughout the book they are compiled in their own appendix. •

SOLDIERS OF
ALL STRIPES

•

Uri and Hans they were chattin’
about their new company captain.
Though she’s aristocratic
she’s no knowledge of tactic,
but an honourable sort, they agreed.
Now Uri and Hans push up weeds.

ARMIES OF THE EMPIRE

The  foot  soldier  makes  up  the  bulk  of  Imperial  forces. 

Without the nobility of knightly orders, the flamboyance 

of the pistolier, and the hard science of the artillery, the 

infantry  are  usually  recruited  from  the  lower  rungs  of 

society. For peasants the army might be their only chance 

to leave their local area, for a desperate street thug their 

—Popular nursery rhyme

only  course  away  from  a  life  of  crime,  for  a  respectable 

farmer a genuine chance to see the world.

For all the pageantry, chivalry, and glorious tales of battle, 

when it comes down to it, wars are won by the rank and 

Standard regiments — halberdiers, handgunners, sword, 

file, the footslogger. Of all the stories of dashing cavalry, 

pike,  and  spear  —  usually  recruit  those  without  talent 

noble charges, and swift manoeuvres, battles usually hinge 

for  anything  else.  These  troops  can  be  trained  quickly, 

on  the  humble  infantryman  refusing  to  give,  standing 

especially  in  emergencies,  and  can  replace  casualties 

staunchly in the blood and guts of their fellows, dying for 

without  upheaval.  More  exclusive  regiments,  such  as 

another’s cause, on the orders of their betters.

archers  and  Greatswords,  might  already  possess  their 

specialist equipment and abilities when recruited.

6

IIRaising an aRmy
The  armies  of  the  Empire  are  raised  on  behalf  of  the 

LoyaLties
Recruits are required to make an oath upon entering their 

provinces  and  great  cities. This  does  not  always  happen 

regiment. The  wording  varies  greatly  across  the  Empire 

directly, however. Any number of nobles, towns, cults, and 

but  is  usually  dedicated  to  a  selection  of  the  gods,  the 

other interests have good reason to raise regiments if they 

Emperor, the province and its Elector, the regiment, and 

can afford it; after all, despite the Empire’s pretensions to 

their fellow soldiers.

progress, political power usually derives from the exercise 

of military might.

Regiments attempt to instil a certain pride among their 

ranks, but this rarely gets by the cynicism of the average 

Many established great noble families have maintained a 

soldier.  Despite  such  cynicism,  all  soldiers  know  that 

regiment for generations. Though this brings prestige and 

when the fighting starts their best chance of survival is to 

power, it is very expensive. Aspiring nobles often found 

stand fast next to their comrades-in-arms.

regiments  to  help  announce  their  credentials  as  major 

players at court. This has caused the ruin of many an over-

The  history  of  a  regiment  is  key  to  its  prestige.  Many 

ambitious noble over the years.

regiments credit themselves with convoluted and dubious 

histories  going  back  even  to  the  time  of  Sigmar,  and 

City  charters  are  sometimes  granted  on  the  condition 

new  regiments  often  borrow  the  history  of  old,  famous 

that  a  regiment  must  be  maintained  and  placed  at  the 

regiments from the same area. Battle honours, a list of all 

disposal of the province. Other cities raise them anyway, 

the  battles  a  regiment  has  fought,  are  memorised  by  its 

to  ensure  their  influence  and  independence.  Regiments 

soldiers and often displayed on its standard.

may be raised directly by the head of a Grand Province, 

and these are effectively the personal guard of the Elector 

The occasion when fierce loyalty to the regiment is most 

Count.  Some  are  raised  by  one  of  the  Imperial  cults, 

on display is when soldiers are confronted by those of a 

ostensibly to defend the Empire, but actually to advance 

rival regiment. This inter-regimental rivalry is sometimes 

that  cult’s  political  power  —  the  rival  Cults  of  Sigmar 

focused on tournaments like archery contests, wrestling, 

and Ulric are especially fond of sponsoring soldiers.

and  Middenball,  but  sometimes  it  spills  over  into  less 

Because  of  the  expense,  only  the  wealthiest  and  most 

regiments meet it almost always ends in a bloody brawl. 

ambitious nobles or the largest cities can keep a regiment 

Fortunately, soldiers are apt to follow the unwritten rules 

together permanently. Many regiments do not pay their 

and are usually too shrewd to draw their weapons.

formal  pursuits.  When  carousing  soldiers  of  different 

troops over the winter, requiring the soldiers to fend for 

themselves.  Other  regiments  are  raised  in  emergencies 

and disbanded once the crisis in question is over. In times 

of peace, troops are paid a small retainer and are expected 

to train in their own time, meet up a few times each year 

to drill, and be ready to mobilise at short notice. This is a 

perfect arrangement for an adventurer.

OATH OF THE BÖGENHAFEN 
HALBERDIERS

I swear to Sigmar that I shall fight with fire in my heart

I swear to my Emperor that I shall stand against his enemies

I swear to the Reikland that I shall protect her people

I swear to my fellow Halberdiers that I shall not flee the field

7

IISOLDIERS OF ALL STRIPESUnifoRms and eqUipment
Many recruits begin their military careers relatively well 

Officers  are  not  required  to  wear  the  uniform  and  are 

famous for dressing in colours that starkly contrast with 

equipped.  Regiments  supply  a  recruit’s  needs,  or  lends 

the regiment’s colours, as a show of bravery.

them the money to buy equipment, on the understanding 

that  it  will  come  out  of  their  future  wages  —  with 

interest. Often this equipment is poor quality, taken from 

eveRyday Life
When  not  on  campaign,  army  life  varies  depending  on 

dead comrades or looted from the enemy. Of course, it is 

the  role  of  the  regiment.  Many  armies,  especially  those 

in no one’s interest to equip soldiers with weapons that 

raised  by  cities,  are  used  as  garrisons  and  to  patrol  the 

might break, but many everyday items are likely to have 

streets. These are available at short notice to face whatever 

the Shoddy Flaw. Most uniforms supplied to new recruits 

danger or disorder should occur. These troops are fed by 

may have seen better days, and have the Ugly Flaw. 

the  regiment  and  might  only  get  one  day  per  week  or 

perhaps a week in every eight, off duty. These troops tend 

Generals want to win wars. They may be corrupt, or prone 

to  be  better  trained,  as  there  is  little  else  to  do.  Many 

to cutting corners, but it is in their interests to command 

garrison  forces  never  leave  their  home  cities.  Getting 

effective fighting forces. When a recruit requires expensive 

married is a sign of responsibility and maturity, so when 

equipment it may possess the Shoddy, Unreliable, or Bulky 

they do marry, these troops are often given a pay rise and 

Flaws. For this reason, soldiers are always on the lookout 

allowed to live away from the barracks.

for  opportunities  to  acquire  better  equipment  or  make 

money back. No self-respecting soldier would steal from 

When not on campaign the soldiers of certain regiments, 

their comrades, but this rarely extends to soldiers of rival 

especially those raised by rural nobles or smaller towns, 

regiments or the possessions of the dead. Selling liberated 

simply live their normal lives. The regiment meets up just 

equipment to the quartermaster is common.

once per week for training and then the soldiers return to 

their farms. They are given a small retainer for this duty 

Throughout  their  career,  soldiers  progressively  upgrade 

but are expected to earn their living elsewhere. This suits 

their belongings. They realise that the quality of their gear 

the sponsors of the regiment who can honestly claim to 

can make all the difference on campaign. 

have a thousand soldiers at their disposal, while not paying 

Colours
The provinces have their own colours, so an army might 

be expected to look uniform. However, if a noble sponsors 

a  regiment,  they  make  sure  that  their  troops  can  be 

a penny. This can also suit soldiers who might be better 

off working other jobs while waiting to be mobilised.

on Campaign
On campaign, life is tough. Armies must travel hundreds 

distinguished, using sashes, feathers, and other devices in 

of miles with little indication of when or even how they 

their heraldic colours. Cities outfit their troops in the city 

might  be  getting  home.  The  footsloggers  must  cover 

colours. Whilst the troops of the Reikland tend to wear 

every inch under their own steam, carry all their kit, and 

off-white  clothing,  the  troops  of  Altdorf  wear  blue  and 

even  forage  for  their  own  food.  Long  forced  marches, 

red uniforms, and the merchants of Bögenhafen pay for  

makeshift camps, unsanitary conditions, rampant disease, 

expensive purple fabrics.

hostile territory, aloof officers, a terrifying foe, any number 

of factors can make waging war a disconcerting as well as 

A  regiment  might  have  an  official  colour  scheme  and 

dangerous experience.

even  restrictions  on  the  cut  and  design  of  its  uniforms. 

Inconsistency and availability of certain dyes, the personal 

Soldiers develop a cynical attitude and sardonic humour 

choice  of  an  individual,  items  looted  from  the  enemy, 

all their own and it is this sort of experience that enables 

scarcity of other equipment, all serve to make a regiment 

them  to  relate  to  other  soldiers,  sometimes  even  deadly 

a hodgepodge of shades and designs. 

enemies, better than they can relate to civilians.

8

IIUP IN ARMSdeseRtion
Though Imperial soldiers swear to serve unwaveringly for 

the  duration  of  their  term,  desertion  is  not  uncommon. 

Deserters can live well, using whatever money they have 

saved  to  set  themselves  up  in  some  quiet  corner  of  the 

Old World, or beyond. Some live to regret their decision, 

however,  ending  up  as  outlaws  or  criminals  or  joining 

ragtag mercenary companies, unable to escape the life of 

a soldier. Some, of course, become adventurers.

Received wisdom within the regiment is that deserters will 

be hounded to the ends of the world. News often spreads 

through  the  ranks  of  a  deserter  being  caught  in  some 

exotic locale and strung up from the nearest convenient 

tree, but this is more often a fabrication to encourage the 

others to abide by their oath. Practically, the regiment has 

better  things  to  do  than  hunt  down  deserters.  Provided 

they  keep  their  head  down,  and  are  sensible  about  it, 

there is little chance of a deserter being caught, short of 

having the bad luck to bump into erstwhile colleagues in 

a tavern or similarly unlucky coincidence.

NEW CAREERS

Several new careers are provided in this book. If using the 

random career tables on WFRP pages 30–31 to generate 

a  career  refer  to  the  following  table  to  see  if  the  career 

generated has further options. If it does, roll again to see 

if one of the careers in this book should apply instead.

A  player  can  always  opt  to  remain  in  the  first  career 

generated,  so  if  a  player  generates  a  Pedlar  they  do  not 

need to see if they are a Camp Follower, and if they do 

wish  to  see  if  they  can  become  a  Camp  Follower  they 

might well discover that they are a destined to remain a 

humble  Pedlar  after  all.  Besides  that,  the  careers  are  all 

still common to the Empire, and players can enter these 

careers as experience and circumstances allow.

Example:  Gerd  Braun  is  a  randomly  generated  Character. 

When  rolling  for  career  Gerd  generates  a  98,  meaning  that 

he is a Soldier. Gerd decides to roll again to see what sort of 

Soldier he is. His second roll is 57, so Gerd is an Archer.

NEW CAREERS

10 SKILLS?
Newer careers in Warhammer Fantasy Roleplay materials have 

tended to list ten skills in the first tier rather than eight as in 

the WFRP Core Rulebook. 

Whilst there are ten options, to advance through a career only 

eight need to be improved, as explained in the WFRP Core 

Rulebook.  This  is  intended  to  provide  a  bit  more  variety  in 

approaching a career, particularly in the early tiers.

9

IISOLDIERS OF ALL STRIPESCAREEROPTIONAL ROLLACADEMICSEngineer01–75: Engineer 76–00: ArtilleristScholar01–85: Scholar 86–00: CartographerRANGERSPedlar01–75: Pedlar 76–00: Camp FollowerWARRIORSCavalryman01–75: Cavalryman 76–00: Light CavalrymanKnight01–55: Knight 56–65: Freelance 66–70: Knight of the Blazing Sun 71–85: Knight of the White Wolf 86–00: Knight PantherSoldier01–40: Soldier 41–50: Archer 51–75: Halberdier 71–85: Handgunner 86–90: Greatsword 91–96: Pikeman 97–00: Siege SpecialistWarrior Priest01–85: Warrior Priest 86–00: Warrior Priest of MyrmidiaARCHER
Halfling, High Elf, Human, Wood Elf

Employing  strength  and  skill  in  equal  measure,  you  bring 

‘Eight  days  it  takes  to  train  a  handgunner,  they  say,  eight 

finesse and accuracy to the battlefield.

days! It took me eight years just to learn to draw a bow.’

– Ute Schuetz, Pfeildorf Archers

Respected  for  their  skill  and  command  of  the  battlefield 

or disdained for their unwillingness to get involved in the 

‘They say us archers are no good in a one-on-one fight but I 

nitty gritty, archers pride themselves on being apart from 

could defeat the greatest pit fighter in Altdorf, as long as we 

(and even better than) the usual rabble that joins the army. 

started far enough apart.’

Anyone can hold a halberd or fire a handgun, they say, but 

– Ned Hamfist, Lumpin Croop’s Fighting Cocks

it takes years of training to be an archer. 

WS

BS

h

ARCHER ADVANCE SCHEME

S

T

I

Ag

Dex

Int WP

Fel

h h

CaReeR path
h Bowman – Silver 1
Skills: Athletics, Climb, Consume Alcohol, Dodge, 
Endurance, Language (Battle), Perception, Play (Horn), 
Ranged (Bow), Stealth (Rural)
Talents: Accurate Shot, Fast Shot, Strong Back, 
Warrior Born
Trappings: Quiver and 10 Arrows, Bow, 
Dagger, Pack, Uniform

 Archer – Silver 3

Skills: Gamble, Gossip, Melee (Basic), Outdoor 
Survival, Track, Trade (Fletcher)
Talents: Drilled, Etiquette (Soldiers), 
Marksman, Sure Shot
Trappings: Headgear, Sword, Quality Bow

 Archer Sergeant – Silver 5

Skills: Cool, Leadership, Navigation, Ride (Horse)
Talents: Combat Aware, Sharpshooter, 
Sniper, Unshakeable
Trappings: Symbol of Rank, Quality Uniform

 Archer Captain – Gold 1

Skills: Lore (Warfare), Secret Signs (Scout)
Talents: Inspiring, Seasoned Traveller, 
Stout-hearted, Warleader
Trappings: Letter of Commission, Light Warhorse 
with Saddle and Tack, Symbol of Rank

10

IIUP IN ARMSThough  seen  as  a  bit  backwards  by  urban  folk  used  to 

blackpowder  and  shining  armour,  the  archer  is  more 

The Deathjacks
The  Deathjacks  are  a  regiment  of  elite  archers  from 

trusted in the countryside, and peasants see them as one 

Stirland.  Originally  patrolling  the  area  around  the  city 

of their own.

of Wurtbad,  their  influence  has  grown  to  cover  much  of 

Archers are the lightest of foot troops, often used to scout 

central Stirland. 

and forage. They are better able to live off the land, which 

More  importantly,  they  are  the  scout  regiment  for  the 

means they get the best food. They also have a reputation 

provincial army. As much as they have earned respect for 

for  being  able  to  act  on  their  own  initiative,  and  able  to 

their  exploits  on  the  field  of  battle,  they  have  especially 

find their way to the battle even through the most difficult 

proved their worth in scouting and foraging.

terrain. An army in enemy territory relies on its archers far 

more than other troops might admit.

They are without peer when making surreptitious raids on 

Archers  take  pride  in  their  skills,  and  regularly  hold 

own  army’s  supply  train,  if  that  is  what  it  takes  to  keep 

competitions  within  companies  and  regiments,  testing 

them  comfortably  fed,  although  they  might  deny  this  as 

the  enemy. They  also  have  a  reputation  for  raiding  their 

accuracy  at  a  variety  of  distances.  The  finest  archers 

vicious rumour.

are  invited  to  represent  their  regiment  in  provincial 

championships.

non-hUman aRCheRs
Human  archers  are  never  to  be  underestimated,  but  the 

non-Human ones are the most feared. The Halflings who 

fight under the name of Lumpin Croop’s Fighting Cocks 

are  a  group  of  mercenary  scouts  who  command  high 

prices, although they are thought lucky rather than highly 

competent and are as famed for their entertaining banter 

as for their skill with a bow.

The  Elves  of  the  forest  are  known  for  loose  formations 

of  archers  who  use  the  terrain  to  their  advantage  and 

whose success is down to individual accuracy rather than 

massed  volleys.  They  are  credited  with  such  prodigious 

accomplishments of archery that reports of their deeds are 

hard to believe. They never turn up at Human tournaments, 

however,  because  they  are  never  invited.  Unlike  their 

Wood Elf cousins, High Elves are famous for close ranks 

of archers, said to dim the sky with their massed arrows.

When not campaigning with their regiment, an archer will 

have plenty of opportunity to undertake adventure. Their 

skill with a bow will always be useful. The stealth of that 

weapon  and  its  range  gives  any  party  an  edge  over  their 

foes. Archers are also used to travelling light and living off 

the fruits of their marksmanship.

11

IISOLDIERS OF ALL STRIPESGREATSWORD
Human

Skilfully wielding your vicious zweihänder, you are the greatest 

‘In  the  name  of  Sigmar,  and  his  Empire,  I  swear  to  serve 

of all the Empire’s foot soldiers.

my  captain,  and  my  regiment,  and  I  swear  never  to  take  a 

backward  step  in  the  face  of  any  enemy  or  suffer  dishonour, 

Greatswords are the signature elite infantry of the Imperial 

shame, and the disdain of my fellows.’

armies, the most prestigious and feared of all the Empire’s 

– Carroburg Greatsword Oath

foot  soldiers.  They  forsake  the  shield  to  wield  huge 

zweihänder swords, ensuring their combats are short and 

deadly  whichever  way  they  go.  Their  large,  two-handed 

weapons  are  unwieldy,  so  Greatswords  need  to  be  swift 

and athletic to compensate. For this reason, they dress in a 

much looser formation than other foot soldiers.

GREATSWORD ADVANCE SCHEME

WS

BS

h

S

h

T

I

Agi Dex

Int WP

Fel

h

CaReeR path
h Greatsword Cadet – Silver 1
Skills: Athletics, Consume Alcohol, Cool, Dodge, 
Endurance, Gossip, Language (Battle), Melee (Basic), 
Melee (Two-handed), Play (Drum)
Talents: Coolheaded, Drilled, Strong Back, Warrior 
Born
Trappings: Dagger, Metal Breastplate, Uniform, 
Zweihänder 

 Greatsword – Silver 3

Skills: Gamble, Intimidate, Lore (Heraldry), Melee 
(Any), Outdoor Survival, Perception
Talents: Combat Reflexes, Etiquette (Soldiers), Fearless 
(Any), Strike Mighty Blow
Trappings: Full Plate Armour, Large Feathered Hat

 Greatsword Sergeant – Silver 5

Skills: Intuition, Leadership, Navigation, Ride (Horse)
Talents: Combat Aware, Enclosed Fighter, 
Unshakeable, Warleader
Trappings: Manual on the art of Zweihänder fighting, 
Quality Zweihänder, Symbol of Rank

 Greatsword Captain – Gold 1

Skills: Charm, Lore (Warfare)
Talents: Commanding Presence, Inspiring, Public 
Speaking, Stout-hearted
Trappings: Letter of Commission, Light Warhorse with 
Saddle and Tack, Quality Uniform, Symbol of Rank

12

IIUP IN ARMS‘The Greatswords are far too full of themselves. So what if they 

On  entering  the  ranks,  a  recruit  must  swear  an  oath  to 

never take a backward step in the face of the enemy? It’s not like 

Sigmar and to the Empire never to take a single backwards 

the rest of us spend all our time running away, is it? First thing 

step in the face of the enemy. This oath is taken very seriously, 

they  ever  taught  me  in  the  Halberdiers  was  don’t  run  away. 

and  overly-literally. While  other  Greatswords  have  drills 

You don’t hear us shouting about it all the time.’

that  involve  backwards  movement,  the  Carroburgers  do 

– Holger Kass, 1st Bögenhafen Halberdiers

not. This stubbornness on the battlefield seems to colour 

their attitude to many aspects of life.

Together  with  their  fame,  Greatswords  have  accrued  a 

reputation for arrogance and a disdain for other types of 

A  Greatsword  might  have  trouble 

justifying  their 

soldier. The Greatswords, of course, claim this reputation 

adventuring  when  they  have  made  an  oath  to  their 

comes merely through the jealousy of their inferiors.

regiment and they are a vital troop in the defence of the 

Because  the  zweihänder  requires  a  completely  different 

A matter of honour is exactly the sort of motivation they 

technique  to  a  one-handed  sword,  there  is  much  study 

would  take  so  seriously.  Perhaps  they  have  even  become 

and discussion of the correct way to fight with them. This 

disillusioned with military service.

Empire. Perhaps they are on a mission to right a wrong. 

debate seems to go on endlessly within the ranks. The issue 

has become a virtual science with many published treatises 

on the art. The old Estalian masters are considered to be 

the ultimate authority on the subject. Some Greatswords 

have been known to affect an Estalian accent when they 

feel the need to impress.

piCked tRoops
Traditionally, members of the Greatswords are personally 

picked by noble lords from among the champions of the 

troops. To gain such promotion, a soldier must distinguish 

themself in the eyes of officers, or accomplish heroic feats. 

Greatsword regiments often garrison the castles of nobles 

or form their bodyguards on the battlefield. Such 

troops swear oaths never to cede ground to the 

enemies of the Empire and to protect their lord 

at  all  costs.  Greatsword  veterans  who  abide  by 

their oaths are often rewarded with knighthood.

The Carroburg Greatswords
The  Carroburg  Greatswords  have  a  reputation  for 

implacability and bravery going back to the great siege 

of Carroburg, when Reiklanders defended the city from 

Middenlander invaders. Their uniforms were so stained 

with  the  blood  of  friend  and  foe  alike  that  they  have 

worn  deep  red  uniforms  ever  since.  To  this  day,  the 

Carroburg  Greatswords  consider  that  they  fight  for 

Sigmar  himself  and  the  regiment  recruits  very 

few devout Ulricans.

13

IISOLDIERS OF ALL STRIPESHALBERDIER
Dwarf, Halfling, Human

Famously reliable, you are a stalwart of the infantry, and not 

‘Would you prefer a spear or an axe?’

to be trifled with.

‘ Yes.’

– Old Halberdiers’ joke.

The  mainstay  of  all  Imperial  armies,  Halberdiers  are 

found  in  forces  the  length  and  breadth  of  the  Empire, 

and  beyond.  They  have  a  reputation  for  reliability  and 

grit  and  make  a  formidable  sight  on  the  field  of  battle, 

massed  closely  together  with  their  imposing  weapons. 

The Halberdier takes heart from fighting in large groups 

of tightly formed units, where they benefit from the reach 

of the halberd while not suffering too much from a lack 

of manoeuvrability.

HALBERDIER ADVANCE SCHEME

WS

BS

S

h

T

h

I

Ag

h

Dex

Int WP

Fel

14

IIUP IN ARMSCareer Pathh Halberdier Recruit – Silver 1Skills: Athletics, Consume Alcohol, Cool, Dodge, Endurance, Language (Battle), Melee (Basic), Melee (Polearm), Perform (Parade), Play (Drum)Talents: Diceman, Drilled, Strong Back, Warrior BornTrappings: Dagger, Halberd, Leather Breastplate, Uniform Halberdier – Silver 3Skills: Climb, Gamble, Gossip, Intimidate, Outdoor Survival, PerceptionTalents: Enclosed Fighter, Etiquette (Soldiers), Fearless (any), Strike Mighty Blow Trappings: Metal Breastplate, Helmet, Quality Halberd Halberdier Sergeant – Silver 5Skills: Intuition, Leadership, Navigation, Ride (Horse)Talents: Combat Aware, Unshakeable, Stout-hearted, Warleader Trappings: Symbol of Rank, Quality Uniform Halberdier Captain – Gold 1Skills: Charm, Lore (Warfare)Talents: Inspiring, Public Speaking, Seasoned Traveller, Commanding PresenceTrappings: Letter of Commission, Light Warhorse with Saddle and Tack, Quality Sword, Symbol of Rank‘The greatest manoeuvre you can ever do with a Halberd, I 

learned from an old Tilean veteran. Watch carefully. Take the 

The Sons of the Reik 
Also known as Altdorf ’s Company of Honour, the Sons 

dough, add the sauce, some sliced sausage, a bit of cheese, then 

of the Reik are an elite unit and the city’s most famous. 

place the blade of your weapon in the fire, like so, for a few 

They have a reputation for being dashing on the field, but 

minutes until the crust is golden brown.’

also somewhat belligerent on the Street of One Hundred 

– Holger Kass, 1st Bögenhafen Halberdiers

Taverns.  Certainly,  the  company  has  a  long  and  storied 

history and an impressive litany of battle honours.

Though unwieldy and difficult to master, the halberd is a 

prodigious weapon in the hands of a trained halberdier. 

The  regiment  supposedly  recruits  only  the  best  and  the 

What it lacks in manoeuvrability it makes up for in reach 

bravest  from  the  city’s  other  regiments.  However,  these 

and what it lacks in finesse it makes up for in sheer power. 

days, there is some controversy surrounding its recruiting 

Though received wisdom has it that a Halberdier is not 

practices.  It  might  be  easier  to  buy  one’s  way  in  by 

as  effective  a  fighter  in  close  order,  Halberdiers  have 

greasing palms than by spilling blood.

developed  a  method  of  fighting  one-on-one  and  pride 

themselves  on  being  a  match  for  anyone  armed  with  a 

sword and shield.

Von Kragsburg Guard
Unusually,  the  Von  Kragsburg  Guard  of  Averheim 

is  a  regiment  founded  by  nobility  that  functions  as  a 

The Death’s Heads
The  Ostermark  Death’s  Heads  is  the  most  famous 

mercenary company. This is very much frowned upon by 

other nobles, but ‘Dirty Duke’ von Kragsburg does very 

Halberdier  regiment  in  the  Empire.  It  was  founded 

well  out  of  it.  Ultimately,  the  company  is  well  trained 

around  500  years  ago  during  the  First  Vampire  Wars, 

and well run with a great reputation in the field. It has 

formed from troops who came together to defend Essen 

battle honours stretching all across the Empire and well 

against the forces of Vlad von Carstein. They wore black 

beyond. Such a unit will always find paying customers.

and red, and hid their faces behind death’s head masks to 

keep their identities secret. They distinguished themselves 

throughout  the  Vampire  Wars  and  keep  their  excellent 

reputation to this day. They still wear death’s head masks 

when going into battle, striking fear into their enemies.

As  with  many  soldiers,  getting  involved  in  adventure 

might seem to go against the thrust of their career, but a 

soldier’s life can afford some opportunities. The regiment 

might be stood down for the winter, or for an indefinite 

period  of  peace.  The  Halberdier  might  decide  that  the 

soldier’s life is not for them after all and be on the lookout 

for another career.

They  might  also  be  identified  as  a  reliable  and 

resourceful  sort  who  could  be  sent  on  a  special 

mission  on  behalf  of  the  regiment,  or  one  of  its 

officers. Sometimes no one can go undercover as 

a hapless, common peasant quite as well as a hapless, 

common peasant.

15

IISOLDIERS OF ALL STRIPESHANDGUNNER
Dwarf, Halfling, Human

Wielding  a  handgun,  you  bring  death  to  your  enemies  from 

‘They are unreliable, noisy, full of hot air, and they leave a 

long range — or at least put the fear of Sigmar into them.

foul smell behind them. And their guns aren’t much better.’

– Holger Kass, 1st Bögenhafen Halberdiers

The  Handgunner  is  a  comparative  newcomer  to  the 

Imperial  army.  Though  they  have  been  around  for 

hundreds of years, they are not yet entirely trusted by the 

rest of the military. Even so, as technology advances, they 

have become increasingly effective on the battlefield and 

are fielded in the Imperial armies in ever greater numbers.

HANDGUNNER ADVANCE SCHEME

S

T

I

Ag

Dex

Int WP

Fel

h h

WS

BS

h

16

IIUP IN ARMSCareer Pathh Handgunner Recruit – Silver 1Skills: Athletics, Consume Alcohol, Cool, Dodge, Endurance, Language (Battle), Melee (Basic), Perception, Play (Flute), Ranged (Blackpowder)Talents: Accurate Shot, Gunner, Marksman, SniperTrappings: Dagger, Handgun, Uniform Handgunner – Silver 3Skills: Climb, Gamble, Gossip, Intuition, Outdoor Survival, Trade (Gunsmith)Talents: Drilled, Etiquette (Soldiers), Fast Shot, Rapid ReloadTrappings: Large Feathered Hat, Quality Handgun Handgunner Sergeant – Silver 5Skills: Leadership, Navigation, Ranged (Engineer), Ride (Horse)Talents: Combat Aware, Sharpshooter, Sure Shot, UnshakeableTrappings: Symbol of Rank, Quality Uniform Handgunner Captain – Gold 1 Skills: Charm, Lore (Warfare)Talents: Inspiring, Seasoned Traveller, Stout-hearted, Warleader Trappings: Letter of Commission, Light Warhorse with Saddle and Tack, Symbol of Rank‘We had some Nordlander archers on our left and the Altdorf 

Handgunners on our right as the Greenskins approached. I was 

The Fireloques of Ferlangen 
A troop of deadly accurate handgunners that have fought 

fearing the worst, I don’t mind telling you. On the command, 

throughout Ostland, often under the army banner of the 

the  archers  loosed  their  arrows  and  the  Handgunners  fired. 

Elector Count himself. Wearing the black and white of 

More Greenskins on the left fell, that’s for sure. But it was the 

their home province the Fireloques of Ferlangen bear no 

ones on the right who ran.’

formal  insignia,  but  superstitiously  decorate  their  hats 

– Holger Kass, 1st Bögenhafen Halberdiers

and  uniforms  with  the  bones  of  fallen  comrades  and 

other good luck charms. 

Firing  and  maintaining  a  handgun  is  a  complex  and 

involved process. Handgunners tend to shroud their jobs 

Even  amongst  the  stubborn  Ostlanders,  the  Fireloques 

in mystique and ritual, leaving the uninitiated to consider 

of  Ferlangen  have  gained  a  reputation  for  tenacity, 

it almost like magic. The finer points of manufacture of 

holding their gun line and unleashing volleys of fire into 

weapons and blackpowder are heavily guarded secrets. To 

approaching  foes.  Their  refusal  to  surrender  the  flank 

this day, many of the Empire’s simpler folk are frightened 

against  Skaeling  marauders  during  the  three-day  Battle 

of  blackpowder  weapons.  Some  point  to  the  fact  that 

of the Littered Bones earned them the nickname of Skull 

Handgunners  need  only  a  few  weeks  training  before 

Clubbers,  as  without  gunpowder  for  the  entire  last  day 

taking the field as testament to how simple their process 

they resorted to using their guns as blunt weapons.

actually is.

For  many  years  the  presence  of  Handgunners  in  the 

Empire’s armies, and those of the Dwarfs for that matter, 

brought  fear  to  the  battlefield.  Many  of  the  Empire’s 

enemies have now got used to the weapon and are not so 

wary of it. Even so, a volley of gunfire from well-drilled 

massed ranks is an awe inspiring and terrifying spectacle.

Handgunners  can  make  good  adventurers,  given  time 

away from their regiment. As well as the usual expertise 

and  discipline  of  a  trained  soldier,  their  specialist 

equipment  will  give  a  party  an  edge  in  ranged  combat 

and bring a certain fear-factor to the fight. Though do not 

expect  them  to  be  so  useful  on  stealthy  or  surreptitious 

missions.

The Nuln Ironsides
The  Nuln  Ironsides  are  a  product  of  the  Imperial 

Gunnery School’s search for military advances. They are 

an  elite  regiment  hand-picked  from  other  Handgunner 

regiments  and  equipped  with  the  best  equipment  the 

Imperial Gunnery School has to offer. Not only do they 

carry  state  of  the  art  handguns,  but  they  wear  heavy 

armour.  This  is  a  telling  factor  when  they  engage  with 

rival ranged troops, but also makes the difference if they 

are ever drawn into melee.

17

IISOLDIERS OF ALL STRIPESARTILLERIST
Dwarf, Halfling, Human

You  bring  the  big  guns  to  the  fight.  You  maintain  and  fire 

‘I  haven’t  noticed  any  smell  of  manure  —  why  is  it  even 

artillery and understand the best use of blackpowder.

relevant?’

- Ludmilla Krabbe, old artillerist on being 

The  pride  and  joy  of  the  Empire,  its  artillery  is  famed 

asked about the noise of battle

for  an  awe-inspiring  spectacle  that  strikes  fear  into  the 

heart  of  all  her  enemies.  However,  artillery  regiments 

do  not  possess  the  glamour  of  the  knightly  orders  or 

the Greatswords. It is hard graft involving heavy lifting, 

fetching,  carrying,  and  tedious  excavation.  Despite  this, 

it  is  vital  to  the  Empire’s  war  effort  and  artillerists  see 

themselves as the unsung heroes of the Empire’s armies.

ARTILLERIST ADVANCE SCHEME

WS

BS

h

S

T

I

h

Ag

Dex

Int WP

Fel

h

18

IIUP IN ARMSCareer Pathh Apprentice Artillerist – Silver 1Skills: Animal Care, Cool, Drive, Endurance, Evaluate, Language (Battle), Melee (Basic), Navigation, Perception, Ranged (Blackpowder, Catapult, Crossbow or Engineering)Talents: Marksman, Rapid Reload, Strong Back, Warrior BornTrappings: Dagger, Leather Apron Artillerist – Silver 3Skills: Consume Alcohol, Gamble, Gossip, OutdoorSurvival, Ranged (Blackpowder, Catapult, Crossbowor Engineering), Trade (Carpenter or Gunsmith)Talents: Crew Commander, Etiquette (Soldiers),Orientation, SniperTrappings: Weapon (Any), Telescope, Tools, Uniform Artillerist Captain – Silver 5Skills: Intuition, Leadership, Lore (Artillery), Ride(Horse)Talents: Combat Aware, Read/Write, Tinker, UnshakeableTrappings: Symbol of Rank, Quality Uniform Master Artillerist – Gold 1Skills: Charm, Lore (Warfare)Talents: Inspiring, Public Speaking, Seasoned Traveller, Stout-heartedTrappings: Artillery piece and Limber, Letter ofCommission, Light Warhorse with Saddle and Tack, Map, Symbol of Rank‘I  have  fought  in  many  wars,  been  overrun  by  ravenous 

beastmen,  tortured  by  greenskins,  seen  the  very  air  warped 

the state of the aRt
Though  various  forms  of  artillery  have  been  used  for 

by  daemons,  but  I  have  never  been  on  the  receiving  end  of 

millennia,  innovations  occur  all  the  time.  Some  of  the 

cannon fire, thank Sigmar.’

– Ludmilla Krabbe 

more exotic pieces of artillery are detailed below. See page 

125 for rules for artillery.

The firepower of the Imperial army is only matched, and 

of  course  surpassed,  by  that  of  the  Dwarfs. The  Dwarfs 

Organ Gun
The Organ Gun is the pride of Dwarven engineering. It 

have  had  a  long  head-start  on  developing  their  great 

comprises a number of barrels that are fired simultaneously. 

weapons of war, but the Humans believe they are catching 

It usually has four or five barrels, though accounts tell of 

up fast. Dwarven artillerists are welcomed into the ranks 

Dwarf holds protected by nine-barrel (and even greater) 

of the Imperial army, in the knowledge that they will be 

Organ Guns. The weapon strikes fear into the enemy by 

expert and reliable, but also in the hope that they might 

combining massive firepower with Dwarf reliability.

reveal some of their secrets.

The Imperial Gunnery School
The vast majority of the Empire’s artillery pieces are forged 

Flame Cannon
The  Dwarven  Flame  Cannon  is  a  dangerous  weapon, 

sometimes  even  to  its  own  side.  It  fires  a  stream  of 

at  the  Imperial  Gunnery  School  in  Nuln.  A  sprawling 

pressurised  oil  towards  the  enemy  while  attempting 

array of smelters, factories, and forges dominates the city, 

to  ignite  it.  If  all  goes  well,  the  results  are  deadly  and 

belching clouds of soot into the air and turning the night 

terrible. Though not a blackpowder weapon, the famous 

sky red. This is the centre of the industry in the Empire.

Flame Cannon counts as an artillery weapon.

The Empire’s best artillerists are also trained here, and the 

Many  diplomatic  missions  have  travelled  from  Altdorf 

Imperial Gunnery School is a pride of the city, proving 

and  Nuln  to  various  Dwarf  holds  offering  generous 

to  its  citizens,  once  more,  that  it  is  better  than  Altdorf. 

trade deals in return for the secret of the Flame Cannon, 

Graduates of the school are respected and welcomed into 

though  always  without  success.  One  artillerist,  sent 

every army in the Empire for their training and expertise.

to  the  mountains  to  steal  such  secrets,  was  returned  to 

the  Empire,  barely  recognisable,  burned  to  a  crisp  by 

Adventuring might seem an odd choice for an artillerist, 

the  weapon  whose  secrets  she  sought.  A  note  from  the 

especially  as  a  cannon  or  other  great  weapon  is  not 

Dwarfs  was  enclosed,  apologising  for  an  unfortunate 

very  convenient  to  drag  around.  But  an  artillerist  does 

accident.

possess a good all-round set of skills and talents and have 

a  range  of  outdoor  skills.  They  would  get  respect  from 

other members of the military and unlike most military, 

Hellblaster Volley Gun
It’s  not  just  the  Dwarfs  who  create  such  fantastical 

would be decently educated and able to hold their own in 

blackpowder weapons. The Imperial College of Engineers 

conversation with scientists and engineers.

in  Altdorf  is  always  experimenting  with  novel  and 

pioneering  cannons.  The  Hellblaster  Volley  Gun  is  an 

An  artillerist  could  get  dragged  into  investigating 

Imperial slant on the Organ Gun. The Volley Gun only 

wrongdoing  or  an  evil  conspiracy  as  easily  as  the  next 

fires  three  barrels  at  once  but  is  arranged  in  a  triangle 

adventurer. After all, bravery in the face of the enemy and 

of  three  banks  of  three  barrels.  This  means  it  can  fire 

an inquiring mind are all an adventurer ever requires and 

three times before it needs reloading. Unfortunately, the 

artillerists must possess both attributes. And perhaps, in 

weapon is notoriously unreliable and is prone to jamming, 

certain circumstances, they might even get to bring their 

or worse, at crucial moments.

cannon along.

19

IISOLDIERS OF ALL STRIPESCAMP FOLLOWER
Dwarf, Halfling, High Elf, Human, Wood Elf

You  accompany  armies  on  campaign,  looking  for  adventure, 

‘Care to buy this gold ring plucked from the finger of a dead 

protection, or just an angle.

Bretonnian? Well, no, it’s not that golden, and no, he wasn’t 

that Bretonnian … and no, he wasn’t that dead, either.’

The 

logistics  of  military  manoeuvres  can  be  near 

– Felix Ramml, Camp Follower

incomprehensible.  Like  mobile  cities,  the  armies  of  the 

Old  World  rely  on  complex  supply  chains  and  strict 

‘Don’t point out her lack of breeding and uncouth manners. 

organisation  to  keep  them  fed  and  supplied.  Much  of 

Don’t  blanch  at  her  unsophisticated  chatter.  After  all,  she’s 

this is directly under the remit of the army. But private 

married a captain, and that’s as good as she is. Not to mention, 

enterprise is always on the lookout for profit, so much of 

she’ll gut you with the knife she conceals in her bodice.’

any army will be made up of an eclectic band of hangers 

– Idle chatter at the officers’ ball

on, pedlars, bawds, tradespeople, artisans, and charlatans. 

Many of these can be described using other careers, but 

those  dedicated  to  following  the  troops  without  any 

specific  trade  or  vocation  come  under  the  auspices  of 

Camp Follower.

CAMP FOLLOWER ADVANCE SCHEME

WS

BS

S

T

I

h

Ag

h

Dex

Int WP

Fel

h

20

IIUP IN ARMSCareer Pathh Ribaud – Brass 1Skills: Charm, Consume Alcohol, Dodge, Entertain (Any), Gossip, Haggle, Melee (Any), Outdoor Survival, Perception, Perform (Dance)Talents: Attractive, Beneath Notice, Blather, Dirty FightingTrappings: Bed Roll, Dagger, Pack Camp Follower – Brass 4Skills: Athletics, Bribery, Endurance, Gamble, Ranged (Any), Stealth (Rural)Talents: Diceman, Etiquette (Soldiers), Rover, Stone SoupTrappings: Tent, Quality Hat Seasoned Scavenger – Silver 1Skills: Cool, Intimidate, Intuition, Language (Any)Talents: Seasoned Traveller, Sturdy, Unshakeable, Very ResilientTrappings: Quality Clothing Camp Chief – Silver 4Skills: Evaluate, LeadershipTalents: Inspiring, Public Speaking, Stout-hearted, Strong-MindedTrappings: Riding Horse with Saddle and Tack, Ring of Camp FollowersCamp  Followers  have  a  varying  reputation.  Many  are 

Life in the camp resembles that of a small town, with many 

simply  honest  traders  making  a  living  by  supplying 

of  the  same  sort  of  interactions  and  interdependencies. 

soldiers. The presence of a nearby army is a ready market 

There is the added complexity that the physical structures 

for their goods, and it makes sense for them to stick by 

are temporary, and everyone is living under the threat of 

it, for safety and profit. Others are not so honest, taking 

imminent attack. Not surprisingly, in a society dedicated 

advantage  of  the  naïveté  of  recruits  and  the  scarcity  of 

to  soldiering,  life  there  can  be  nasty,  brutal,  and  short. 

supplies to profiteer or pass off shoddy wares. These petty 

Many  will  perform  whatever  sordid  and  lowly  services 

charlatans live on their wits, of course, as exploiting the 

they can for whoever will pay.

heavily  armed  and  belligerent  is  not  always  the  wisest 

business plan.

With  a  reputation  for  rudeness,  opportunism,  and 

dishonesty,  Camp  Followers  are  treated  with  disdain 

Some  are  specialist  tradesmen  and  crafters  performing 

by  the  more  respectable  citizens  of  the  Empire  and 

many of the services vital to the functioning of an army, 

avoided.  The  established  pecking  order  is  as  complex 

from blacksmiths to gunsmiths, tailors to cobblers. Armies 

and as difficult to navigate as in any city, but much more 

generally  employ  their  own  labour  for  many  of  these 

dangerous, and whatever meagre status one can acquire is 

purposes but a skilled artisan with a good reputation can 

bitterly fought for.

charge  a  premium,  especially  when  the  quality  of  their 

work can be a matter of life and death. Reputations, good 

The ruthlessness of the camp is never more in evidence 

and bad, are quick to travel within an army and veteran 

than  in  the  aftermath  of  battle.  The  poorest  and  most 

soldiers are discerning customers.

desperate  pick  their  way  across  the  battlefield  cruelly 

stripping the dead and dying from both sides of whatever 

Many Camp Followers are the partners and children of 

items of value they can find, left behind by the scavenging 

the soldiers themselves. Some soldiers consider this to be 

victorious  soldiers.  This  is  where  the  Camp  Follower’s 

the best way to look after their family and it offers them 

reputation for greed and brutality is earned.

some of the comforts of home while on campaign. These 

Camp Followers are also able to make money in addition 

to their partner’s military pay by acquiring a trade useful 

to the army. Others make money by performing similar 

functions and, getting used to such a way of life, look to 

marry into the army.

The  presence  of  a  large  contingent  of  followers  is  a 

blessing and a curse for the army. On the one hand, they 

perform  much  needed  jobs,  often  more  efficiently  than 

the army can manage in-house, and they enhance morale. 

On the other, they need to be defended, which involves 

diverting resources from other duties, and their presence 

can  be  unpredictable  as  they  do  not  have  the  discipline 

and the respect for orders that soldiers do.

DEAD 
CONCERNED

 0 Captain Rudolf Ratzenberger has been in a simmering 
secret  feud  with  rival  Captain  Felice  Fullermann  ever 

since she bested him in a duel for the Regimental Cup. 

He  needs  someone  who  can  sniff  around  skeletons 

in closets and find something dishonourable. Anything 

remotely  scandalous  will  do,  even  if  you  must  resort 

to entrapment.

 0 The  enemy  seem  to  know  everything  about  us  and 
seem to know our movements almost before we make 

them. Someone must be passing this information on. 

We  need  you  to  spread  rumours  and  misinformation 

throughout  the  camp  in  a  way  that  will  pinpoint 

precisely where the leaks are coming from.

21

IISOLDIERS OF ALL STRIPESCARTOGRAPHER
Dwarf, Halfling, High Elf, Human, Wood Elf

You are hired to survey and map far flung locations. The more 

‘Night  was  falling,  so  me  and  the  lads  crawled  through  the 

the area is in need of mapping, the more dangerous the job is 

mud, past the enemy lines, dispatched a couple of beasties on 

likely to be.

our way. And when we got to the post, there was just a single 

survivor  there,  quill  in  hand,  hunched  over  a  rock. We  told 

As  the  world  gets  more  sophisticated  there  is  a  need 

him  we  had  to  get  out  of  there  quick.  He  asked  for  twenty 

to  map  it  in  increasing  detail.  Whether  this  involves 

minutes more as he needed to finish off a particularly tricky 

exploring  largely  unknown  lands  and  making  sweeping 

set of contours.’

maps  of  the  general  area  or  going  into  exacting  detail 

– Holger Kass, 1st Bögenhafen Halberdiers

over small tracts in petty land disputes, cartographers are 

increasingly in demand.

CARTOGRAPHER ADVANCE SCHEME

WS

BS

S

T

I

h

Ag

Dex

Int WP

Fel

h h

22

IIUP IN ARMSCareer Pathh Surveyor – Silver 1Skills: Art (Cartography), Climb, Evaluate, Lore (Geography), Melee (Basic), Navigation, Outdoor Survival, Perception, Ride (Horse), Stealth (Rural)Talents: Artistic, Orientation, Read/Write, RoverTrappings: Vellum, Writing Kit Cartographer – Silver 3Skills: Charm, Endurance, Gossip, Haggle, Lore (Heraldry), Trade (Cartographer)Talents: Coolheaded, Flee!, Seasoned Traveller, Strider (Any)Trappings: Horse with Saddle and Tack, Theodolite Chartered Cartographer – Silver 5Skills: Intuition, Language (Guilder), Research, Secret Signs (Guilder)Talents: Bookish Etiquette (Guilders), Nimble-fingered, UnshakeableTrappings: Letter of Charter, Quality Travel Clothes Master Cartographer – Gold 1Skills: Language (Any), Lore (Any)Talents: Dealmaker, Stout-hearted, Master Tradesman (Cartography), Magnum OpusNo one needs maps more than the military. They have an 

‘So, the lord of the manor wants a plan of seven box stalls for 

insatiable requirement for whatever ones they can get and 

his new stables. He won’t say how big he wants them, what 

they have the money to commission more. Many of the 

he wants them to look like, what they’re made of, how they’re 

Empire’s  cartographers  learn  their  trade  in  the  military, 

constructed, and he won’t pay the going rate, but he wants a 

either employed directly in the ranks or contracted as an 

nice map, and he wants it yesterday.’

– Anonymous cartographer

BOTHERSOME 
BORDERS

 0 Nasty Jack Raven and his eleven crew members have 
made a pact that they should not return to their buried 

treasure  until  the  entire  company  agrees.  He  needs 

a  cartographer  who  can  copy  down  elements  of  the 

master map such that all the pieces must need to be 

present to find the treasure. Of course, once the maps 

are complete, Nasty Jack will want to ensure that no 

one who knows the whole picture remains alive.

 0 Anyone  can  claim  to  have  civilised  a  bit  of  land  in 
the Border Princes. But to really set yourself up as a 

noble there, you need to prove your claim by getting 

it accurately mapped, even if you haven’t bothered to 

get rid of all the Greenskins and other monsters in the 

area.  A  heavy-handed  mapping  expedition  might  kill 

two birds with one stone.

outsider.  The  artillery  is  the  most  appreciative  of  good 

maps  which  allow  them  to  target  their  machineries  of 

destruction with greater accurately.

Older  cartographers  generally  tire  of  such  a  perilous 

lifestyle  and  many  set 

themselves  up  as  urban 

professionals  taking  less  interesting  —  but  often  more 

lucrative — work, commissioned by wealthy landowners, 

businesses,  and  governments.  Whereas  a  noble  would 

traditionally commission portraits of their family by the 

finest  artists  they  can  afford,  aspiring  merchants  are  as 

likely  to  commission  maps  of  their  holdings  and  their 

trade  routes,  and  every  town  needs  a  large  map  of  the 

borough displayed in the town hall.

The science of mapmaking is still in its infancy and many 

maps are little more than pictures or rough plans. Good 

draughtsmanship  is  harder  to  find  and  accurate  maps 

are  often  underappreciated.  New-fangled  devices  like 

theodolites  are  now  must-haves  for  any  self-respecting 

cartographer, allowing much more accuracy but requiring 

painstaking and methodical measurements. 

Keen  cartographers  will  always  find  opportunities  for 

adventure.  Any  exploration  or  exotic  journey  would 

benefit  from  having  a  cartographer  along.  The  further 

afield the travel, the more necessary this might be. A good 

number of jobs might require exacting drawings or plans, 

in the name of science or larceny, and this can lead to all 

different types of adventure. Simply being commissioned 

to travel to a specific area and making as detailed a plan 

of it as possible is bound to lead to any number of dangers 

and discoveries.

Old,  discovered  maps  can  lead  to  adventures,  too,  and 

often  require  an  experienced  cartographer  to  interpret. 

Another  benefit  of  having  a  cartographer  along  on  an 

adventure is that you can map your exploits and sell it to 

those who come after you.

23

IISOLDIERS OF ALL STRIPES•

KNIGHTS OF
THE EMPIRE 

•

Knights are fundamental to life in the Empire. They are a 

Other  bands  of  knights  originally  garrisoned  border 

devastating force on the battlefield, protectors of religion 

forts  built  to  secure  a  lord’s  lands. They  were  armed  and 

and the nobility, and powerful political players. Agitators 

armoured to keep the locals in line and the territory clear 

decry 

their  battlefield  glory-seeking  and  excessive 

of threats. For example, the Order of the Silver Mountain 

influence — but even these cynics recognise their prowess 

started as a band of mounted bullies tasked with holding 

as warriors.

land grabbed by a forgotten Hochland baron. 

SELECT BROTHERHOODS

Many  orders’  foundations  were  religious,  where  warrior 

monks  or  temple  guards  evolved  into  fighting  regiments 

Although knights vary greatly, there are several common 

funded  by  the  faithful.  Over  the  centuries  they  grew  in 

characteristics.  Most  fight  in  plate  armour  on  foot  and 

power within the cult hierarchy and wider Empire society. 

horseback.  The  majority  are  affiliated  with  a  Knightly 

The  Knights  of  the White Wolf,  the  Order  of  the  Fiery 

Order — bands of knights united by a common purpose. 

Heart, and the Knights Raven all formed in this way.

This  could  be  a  religious  calling,  as  many  knights  are 

templars  in  service  of  a  cult,  especially  those  of  warrior 

Countless  orders  formed  during  the  Crusades,  when 

gods  such  as  Sigmar,  Ulric  or  Myrmidia.  Secular  orders 

knights  from  the  Empire  and  Bretonnia  flocked  to  fight 

may be affiliated with a specific province or city, whereas 

in Estalia, and later Araby. Brotherhoods of knights came 

others, such as the Knights Panther, possess political clout 

together  on  campaign  and  returned  to  the  Empire  to 

in many provinces and cities. The orders are numerous and 

establish new orders. The most celebrated example is the 

vary greatly, each with their own aspirations, peculiarities, 

Knights Panther, but the Order of the Golden Lion and 

and knightly virtues.

the Knights of the Blazing Sun were also born from this  

wideranging conflict.

Not  all  knights  belong  to  an  order. There  are  freelancers 

and  eccentrics  who  ride  through  the  land,  masterless  or 

mercenary,  driven  by  their  own  code  of  virtue  or  love  of 

the oRdeRs
Most knights come from the nobility. Indeed, the higher 

coin. The arrival of such a knight in a town or village can be 

orders generally consider knighthood their only acceptable 

a welcome occasion or a cause for grave concern. 

warrior  tradition.  Many  noble  families  have  affiliations 

histoRy
The  forerunners  of  knights  were  warriors  who  fought  in 

the  retinue  of  powerful  chieftains  and  priests  in  the  first 

with  specific  orders,  but  some  sons  and  daughters  break 

with tradition to join an order more in keeping with their 

beliefs or temperament.

centuries  of  the  Empire.  When  a  tribe  looted  or  earned 

Knightly  orders  vary  greatly  in  size  and  power,  although 

enough  wealth  to  gift  the  lord’s  retinue  with  horses 

they  tend  to  share  a  similar  structure. The  Grandmaster 

and  armour,  they  adopted  a  role  as  shock  cavalry  on  the 

oversees  an  Inner  Circle  of  veteran  or  favoured  knights 

battlefield.  The  Osterknacht,  for  example,  are  believed 

who  lead  the  order.  Below  them  are  First  Knights  or 

to  have  their  origins  in  the  personal  axe-guard  of  the 

Preceptors who command their own units, who are served 

Ostagoth tribe’s King Adelhard.

by the squires who aspire to knighthood themselves. 

24

IIIMost variation arises from culture and custom. Orders such 

as  the  Knights  of  Sigmar’s  Blood  are  tightly-structured 

BECOMING A KNIGHT

monastic  organisations  where  life  is  regimented  by  the 

hierarchy. Others have a looser chain of command — any 

The most exalted orders restrict their numbers to those of 

knight is free to live as they please, obliged only to respect 

noble  background  who  are  recommended  by  one  of  the 

the values of the Order, guard their reputation, and join the 

Inner Circle, but there are exceptions. In some Orders, the 

muster when the Grandmaster calls them to battle.  

petitioner must serve in a Pistolkorps regiment before they 

The majority of knights have a private income from land 

initiates,  priests  of  monks  and  nuns  into  their  numbers. 

and property which they use to pay for their trappings and 

They  must  still  prove  themselves  as  a  novice,  learning 

retainers.  Others  benefit  from  noble  patronage  or,  in  the 

humility and confirming their faith. 

are deemed suitable for admission. Templar orders accept 

case of templars, the cult’s coffers. 

knights in soCiety
Knights play several prestigious roles in society. Obviously, 

Once  accepted,  the  candidate  serves  as  a  squire  and 

eventually  undergoes  some  test  or  trial  to  test  their 

worthiness.  If  they  pass,  they  are  knighted  by  the 

they serve the military as heavy cavalry, but they also act 

Grandmaster or some other patron of the Order — such 

as guards for exalted individuals and important buildings 

as a High Priest, an Elector Count or the Emperor himself. 

such as temples and palaces. They are often found playing 

The  Order  grants  the  new  knight  a  token  of  their  new 

the  role  of  agent  or  military  advisor  to  nobles  or  the 

status, such as a heraldic ring, medallion or seal.

wealthiest merchants. 

Individual  knights  benefit  from  their  Order’s  political 

power or the status associated with their title. They are free 

to walk amongst the higher orders and the military alike. 

Some take advantage, abusing their position and privilege 

to dominate others. 

Knights  also  entertain  the  masses. Tourneys  and  parades 

bring excitement to the towns and cities of the Empire and 

the common people enjoy the spectacle of a fully armoured 

regiment on the move, banners flapping in the wind. 

YOU’RE NOT A KNIGHT!
Knights are important people, far too busy and exalted to do 

menial work or anything too practical. A Knightly Order is a 

community that includes many who work to support their social 

and military betters. Sergeants and men-at-arms accompany the 

knights in battle, squires, smiths, armourers and ostlers handle 

weaponry, armour, horses and other trapping. A whole host of 

household staff maintain the chapter houses and land holdings 

of the wealthy orders.

Numerous careers can be part of a Knightly Order. Characters 

following such careers may never be considered a knight, but 

they are still a part of a powerful organisation. Suitable careers 

depending on the order include: Advisor, Apothecary, Artisan, 

Artist, Bailiff, Boatman, Cavalryman, Coachman, Envoy, Guard, 

Hunter,  Investigator,  Lawyer,  Messenger,  Physician,  Priest, 

Scholar,  Scout,  Seaman,  Servant,  Soldier,  Spy,  Townsman, 

Warden.

25

IIIKNIGHTS OF THE EMPIRE26

IIIUP IN ARMSKNIGHTLY ORDERS OF THE EMPIRE.Players may want to choose a Knightly Order from this list which appeals to how they see their character. Many other Knightly Orders exist, and further confusion may result from the fact that some of the listed Orders go by various names, but the following are likely to be known to any Old Worlder with an interest in military affairs or history.OrderAffiliationPoints of InterestBlack BearSecular — AverlandBoisterous and argumentative, the Order is very fond of tourneys to prove their martial prowess and their capacity for alcohol.Black GriffonSigmarActive in Averland and guardians of pilgrims to a temple in the Black Mountains, where Sigmar is said to have rested before the Battle of Black Fire Pass.Black Guard of MorrMorrKnights of this Order act as wardens for cemeteries, mausoleums and other sites sacred to Morr. They wear fully-enclosed obsidian black armour and observe a vow of silence when not in combat.Black RoseMorr — TalabeclandA small Order formed during the Black Plague, they have a long history, even serving as bodyguards to the Count of Stirland and Talabecland at different times. They are adorned with skulls and symbols of Morr.Blazing SunMyrmidiaThe predominant Myrmidian Order in the Empire, the Blazing Sun brings tactical ingenuity to the battlefield. Knights travel the land looking for challenges to test their skills.Bloody FistUlricUlrican knights outside the control of the cult, the Bloody Fist are based in Ostland, where they face hostility from the largely Sigmarite population. They are brutal fighters and often ally with Ogre mercenaries.Bloodied SpurSecular — WissenlandAccomplished horsemen, the Bloodied Spur’s charge is feared by their enemies. They were depleted but victorious at the Battle of Nuln against the hordes of Tamurkhan in 2511.Broken SwordSecularFormed when freelance knights banded together to fight beastmen under Preceptor Barthos, This Order prizes individualism and eschews hierarchy. They have their chapter house in Schoppendorf.ColdfireSecular-EmperorObscure and secretive, the Coldfire knights answer only to the Emperor and enact his will to eliminate threats. Karl-Franz has been reluctant to use them.Crystal LanceSecular — TalabeclandRecruiting at pace to restore numbers after devastating loss of knights in battle against the Sorceror Lord Vethric, Grandmaster Copperfinger accepts almost anyone into the Order if they can ride and fight.Divine SwordSigmarA once-important Order that rode to battle with Grand Theogonist Kurt III against the armies of the Vampire Count, Mannfred von Carstein, it fell from favour due to cult politics. Today, their dwindled number is reduced to reckless sorties on the Empire’s borders.EncarmineSecularFoppish and wealthy, the Order recruits only the privileged. They fight in red armour with two swords, eschewing a shield as a ‘commoner’s defence’.Everlasting LightVerenaScholar knights who champion justice with rhetoric and the sword, The Order has been cursed with bad luck since their founding during the Crusades.Fiery HeartSigmarZealous templars of Sigmar, the Order is responsible for protecting the faithful and the Sigmarite priesthood, including the Grand Theogonist. They seek the lost Dwarf blade Karaghul for reasons unknown.Glinting SteelSecular — MiddenlandThese knights take pride in immaculate presentation and discipline. They are rivals of the Knights of the White Wolf, who they deem ‘unseemly’.27

IIIKNIGHTS OF THE EMPIREOrderAffiliationPoints of InterestGold LionSecularFamously loyal to the Empire, the Gold Lions are implacable in battle. The Order gives away much of their wealth but does maintain a small stable of Demigryphs for the Inner Circle.Hammer of SigmarSigmarAn order of zealots, knights ride into combat with cavalry hammers and a fanatical devotion to Sigmar. In times of peace, they proselytise from horseback to instil faith in the masses.Jade GriffonSigmarA Templar Order that is trying to live down the shame of Aekold Hellbrass, the knight who became a Champion of Tzeentch. Vociferous in their hatred of Chaos, they fight with Zweihänders.Knights GriffonSigmarFounded by Magnus the Pious in Nuln and charged with guarding temples of Sigmar, it maintains a large stable of Demigryphs.Knights MarinerManann — MarienburgA prestigious Order of Templars, the Order is well-funded by the Marienburg cult and their mercenary inclinations, and maintain a fleet and several chapter houses in the Empire.Knights of the ArrowAmber College of MagicA small order with lodges in the Reikwald, the Amber Order provides demigryphs for the knights to ride in battle.Knights of the BullSecular — OstlandAlso known as the Stubborn Bulls, knights fight with two-handed swords and are adept at negotiating the heavy forests of their home province. Their Grandmaster is Leopold von Raukov.Knights of the ScrollVerenaKnights of the Scroll safeguard places of knowledge and priests, and are often charged with seeking lost knowledge in dangerous places. They cover their armour in parchments and inscriptions of knowledge they deem important.Knights of the Setting SunSecularThey have chapter houses in the foothills of the Grey Mountains. Members harbour a deep distrust of Bretonnian knights and the Asrai of Athel Loren.Knights of the StagSecular— TalabheimDeeply distrustful of other Knightly Orders, the Knights of the Stag take pride in fighting in close formation. Knights PantherSecularA renowned and powerful Order throughout the Empire, its knights can be found on countless battlefields and in the higher echelons of society.Knights RavenMorrOfficially the Order of Deserved Rest, members are recruited from vampire hunters. They are experts in fighting the undead, and often raid into Sylvania from their chapter house in Siegfriedhof.North StarNordlandThese protectors of Nordland and champions of the Emperor are based in Salzenmund. Arrayed in midnight blue and black, they are suspected of divided loyalties between Nordland and Altdorf.Northern CrossUlricKnights of the Northern Cross vow to reject the comforts of civilisation. From their lodge high in the northern Middle Mountains they live an austere life battling the beastmen and greenskins of the highlands.OsterknachtOstermarkThe Honour Guard to the Chancellor of Ostermark, they are adept at politics and defensive warfare, and are notoriously superstitious.Red ShieldsSecular — TalabheimThe Elector Count of Talabheim’s personal bodyguard, the Red Shields are renowned for their mastery of the longsword.ReiksguardSecular — ReiklandLead by Grandmaster Hellborg, it is the most powerful Knightly Order in the Empire and the Emperor’s guard and elite army.28

IIIUP IN ARMSOrderAffiliationPoints of InterestRighteous SpearMyrmidiaCountless sub-orders are named for Myrmidian miracles, including the Knights of the Merciless Titan and the Knights of the Starry Shield. Sacred ScytheStirlandFeared and distrusted by locals, these scythe-bearing knights are willing to do terrible things to keep the Sylvanian undead at bay.Shining SwordSecularFounded by an outcast knight who recovered the Solland Runefang after it was lost for centuries, members claim to be descendants of the fallen Order of the Southern Sword, champions of Solland since the time of Sigmar.Sigmar’s BloodSigmar — Talabecland, Averland and StirlandMembers of this Order are recruited from the nobility of Talabecland, Averland and Stirland. They carry white lances marked with black flames in commemoration of the Battle of Black Fire Pass.Silver MountainSecular — HochlandThis Order is dedicated to the protection of Hochland, closely allied with the Ludenhof family. Each knight has a vision of a shining silver peak in the Middle Mountains, which has never been located.Sons of ManannManann — EmpireThey patrol the Empire’s coast, and fight with cutlass and buckler when on foot. The Order has poor relations with the cult hierarchy in Marienburg, who see them as lackeys of the Empire.Sword and ScaleVerenaProtectors of Verenan temples and dignitaries, the Order takes up arms on behalf of judges or against tyrants who abuse the rule of law.Taal’s FuryTaal — TalabeclandEntirely mounted on Demigryphs, they vow to purge Chaotic influence from nature. Knights carry halberds and countless charms and fetishes to invoke Taal’s blessing.Twin-tailed OrbSigmarThese ferocious holy warriors dwell in chapter houses high in the World’s Edge Mountains. The Chaos Lord Archaon once belonged to the Order, but this is a secret known to only a few.Vengeful SunSecularThis small Order — entirely mounted on demigryphs — originated during the Vampire Wars. Their chapter house is located outside Bogenhafen.White WolfUlricTemplars of Ulric, this large and powerful Order defends the temples and priests of Ulric wherever they are found. They prefer to fight helmetless with cavalry hammers.Should  a  Knight  reach  the  exalted  position  of  First  or 

Inner  Circle  Knight,  they  will  be  expected  to  have  their 

own command. These subordinate knights are assigned by 

the Order and the Character may lead them in battle, but 

they’re unlikely to attend the Character at all times. A senior 

knight could summon subordinates to present themselves 

but remember that they are important people in their own 

right and will expect to be treated with dignity and respect 

— they’re likely to be nobles and mighty warriors, so they 

won’t appreciate being given laborious or inglorious tasks 

to perform.

Horses
As you progress through your career as a knight, you will 

acquire first a riding horse and then a destrier — a powerful 

warhorse which is deadly in its own right.

Looking after such a magnificent beast is no small task. On 

campaign or on the road, you will need to secure stabling 

and groom the horse, either using your Animal Care skill 

or  employing  someone  else.  A  trained  destrier  can  cost 

upwards of 230 GC, so replacing your mount is not easy.

RIDING HORSE

M WS BS S

T

I

Ag Dex

Int WP Fel W

7

25

-

30 45 20 30

-

10 10 20 24

Traits: Size (Large), Skittish, Stride, Trained (Broken, 

Mount), Weapon +6

DESTRIER — HEAVY WARHORSE

M WS BS S

T

I

Ag Dex

Int WP Fel W

4

35

-

50 50 20 20

-

10 10 30 32

Traits: Big, Size (Large), Skittish, Stride, Trained 

(Broken, Mount, War), Weapon +8

Optional: Champion, Clever, Elite, Hardy, Rear, 

Tough

29

IIIKNIGHTS OF THE EMPIREKnights as adventurersA freelance knight lives a life much like the rest of an adventuring party. But what if you’re playing a member of a Knightly Order, bound by obligations to your comrades and commander?Most of the time, knights are not charging across a muddy battlefield. While some are posted permanently in one location, many more are expected to venture out into the world to broaden their knowledge, seek intelligence, hone their skills and undertake quests assigned to them. Some act as messengers or diplomats, representing their Order to powerful or important people throughout the Old World and beyond. As a Player, you will have a powerful organisation behind you — but remember that you must honour their oaths and reputation.Few knights travel alone. They are expected to surround themselves with people to do the work they cannot, should not, or will not do. An adventuring party could be the knight’s retinue of attendants. This can make a good premise for an adventuring party, providing you don’t let your position of authority spoil the game for other Players — and that the knight pays them regularly enough.a Knight’s trappingsA knight’s possessions are affirmations of their status and identity. Most Orders expect their knights to maintain a level of appearance in keeping with their reputation. This means good quality, well-maintained arms and armour, but also a pristine tabard, horse tack, and the trappings of everyday life suited to their position in society. Knights will be guests at court, so they must have fine clothes and ceremonial attire.As knights advance in their vocation, they need more attendants and hangers on — as indicated in the career trappings. A Knight Character will need to source and maintain these, possibly from their Order or bought and paid by the Knight themself. From now on, the Knight is responsible for their upkeep. These retainers could be Hireling NPCs (see the rules for generating individual Hirelings on page 113), or other Characters in the adventuring party could adopt particular roles. Demigryphs
In  some  Knightly  Orders  there  are  Inner  Circle  knights 

brave enough to ride Demigryphs into battle. They must 

prove  their  worthiness  by  venturing  into  the  forest  and 

capturing one of these terrifying beasts themselves. Even 

a trained Demigryph is a temperamental, savage beast. In 

battle, they strike swiftly with their talons and beaks, while 

their rider thrusts at the enemy with a cavalry halberd.

Travelling  with  a  Demigryph  is  discouraged  by  most 

Knightly  Orders,  as  they  are  precious  beasts  which  are 

difficult to keep. If you do leave the Order’s stables, you’ll 

need to find large secure stables or a thick rope and a sturdy 

tree — they are hardy animals which can sleep outdoors. 

They  have  a  healthy  appetite,  so  you’ll  need  to  find  the 

equivalent of a whole pig every day. In the wilderness they 

can  hunt  for  themselves,  but  there  is  a  15%  chance  they 

won’t return if left to their own devices.

For more on Demigryphs see page 109.

Other Mounts
There are legends of knights who ride even more unusual 

beasts,  including  giant  winter  wolves,  thundering  war 

bulls, dragons, or exotic creatures from Lustria. There may 

even  be  some  truth  to  these  stories.  Grandmasters  can 

ride  even  more  impressive  mounts  when  commanding 

an army. Some Orders can afford to provide their leaders 

with a trained Griffon or Pegasus, giving them the benefit 

of flight to soar above the battlefield and swoop in where 

their leadership is most needed. Profiles can be found on 

pages 321 and 323 of the WFRP Rulebook.

INTO THE WOODS
Lord  Gottfried  Bundebad  is  a  grizzled  former  First  Knight 

who  left  the  Order  of  Glinting  Steel  after  seeing  too  many 

peers promoted through nepotism and internal politicking. Now 

he sells his services to minor nobles looking for muscle and 

military advice. 

He  is  assembling  a  small  unit  of  knights  and  warriors  to 

accompany  him  into  the  Forest  of  Shadows  to  defeat  the 

Cluster Eye Goblin Tribe. When they bring back the head of 

Warlord Gritl, none will doubt the prowess of his new band.

30

IIIUP IN ARMSFREELANCE
Human

Freelancers  are  as  diverse  as  their  origins.  They  wear 

their own colours, which may be a family crest if they are 

noble  or  heraldry  of  their  own  devising.  Eccentric  arms 

You pursue the life of the knight, but without the obligations to, 

and  armour  are  common,  assembled  from  their  own 

or the protection of, a Knightly Order.

preferences  or  whatever  they  can  obtain  and  maintain. 

They  are  often  viewed  with  suspicion,  as  they  have  no 

Not  all  knights  belong  to  an  order,  there  are  those  who 

Order to vouch for their disposition, but if their actions are 

are  knighted  independently  by  a  noble,  others  declare 

heroic, they can become popular.  Advancement outside an 

themselves  a  knight,  and  there  are  some  who  leave  (or 

order is unstructured — typically a freelancer grows their 

are  thrown  out…)  of  an  Order  to  forge  their  own  path. 

retinue and eventually leads their own troop of knights. An 

These are known as ‘freelancers’, knights who fight for coin, 

example of this is Voland’s Venators, a notoriously rowdy 

honour, or some peculiar motive of their own.  Some are 

band  of  knights  who  fight  as  mercenaries  in  Tilea,  the 

hardened mercenaries or little better than bandits. Others 

Border Princes, and the Empire.

are  champions  of  the  downtrodden  or  selfless  unsung 

heroes of the people.

FREELANCE ADVANCE SCHEME

WS

BS

S

h

T

I

Agi Dex

Int WP

Fel

h h

CaReeR path
h Squire – Silver 1
Skills: Athletics, Animal Care, Charm Animal, 
Consume Alcohol, Heal, Gossip, Melee (Cavalry), 
Outdoor Survival, Ride (Horse), Trade (Farrier)
Talents: Roughrider, Sturdy, Warrior Born, Combat 
Aware
Trappings: Leather Jack, Mail Shirt, Riding Horse with 
Saddle and Tack, Shield, Trade Tools (Farrier)

 Freelance Knight – Silver 2

Skills: Charm, Cool, Dodge, Endurance, Intimidate, 
Intuition, Melee (Any)
Talents: Etiquette (Any), Seasoned Traveller, Strike 
Mighty Blow, Stone Soup
Trappings: Destrier with Saddle and Tack, Melee 
Weapon (Any), Plate Armour and Helm, Personal 
Heraldry

 Freelance Captain – Gold 1

Skills:  Haggle, Gamble, Leadership, Lore (Warfare)
Talents: Combat Master, Stout-hearted, Unshakable, 
Warleader
Trappings: Barding, Small Retinue of Followers

 Knight Commander – Gold 3
Skills: Language (Battle), Lore (Any)
Talents: Luck, Disarm, Iron Will, Inspiring
Trappings: Company of knights, Squire

31

IIIKNIGHTS OF THE EMPIREKNIGHT OF THE
BLAZING SUN

            Human

The Blazing Suns are renowned for their study of strategy 

and tactics in both warfare and personal combat. Myrmidia 

prizes the enquiring mind, invention, and the cultivation 

of  diverse  knowledge,  so  knights  hone  their  judgement, 

You embody the values of Myrmidia and ride at the forefront 

resourcefulness  and  skills  in  diplomacy.  Commanders 

of her templar knights.

often  grant  individual  knights  independence  to  choose 

how to engage an enemy or a situation.

The Knights of the Blazing Sun are templars of Myrmidia 

and the goddess’ largest Order in the Empire. They have 

‘My Goddess is a patron of strategists. If one knight has been 

a  good  reputation,  but  suspicion  surrounds  knights 

assigned to guard her temple, then one knight is sufficent to the 

dedicated to a war goddess often regarded as foreign to 

task. Though only I stand before you, Myrmidia herself stands 

the  Empire.  The  Order  favours  nobles  who  are  willing 

behind me. Now, which of you shall be the first to die?’

to  declare  their  faith  in  Myrmidia  and  rise  above  petty 

– Cristobál Cardana, Knight of the Blazing Sun

inter-cult  rivalries.  A  wealthy  Order,  a  steady  stream  of 

gold  flows  into  their  vaults  from Tilea  and  Estalia  and 

expeditions further afield.

KNIGHT OF THE BLAZING SUN ADVANCE SCHEME

WS

BS

h

S

h

T

I

h

Agi Dex

Int WP

Fel

CaReeR path
h Novice – Silver 3
Skills: Athletics, Animal Care, Charm Animal, Heal, 
Language (Classical), Lore (Heraldry), Lore (Any), 
Melee (Basic), Melee (Cavalry), Ride (Horse)
Talents: Etiquette (any), Read/Write, Roughrider, 
Warrior Born
Trappings: Leather Jack, Mail Shirt, Riding Horse with 
Saddle and Tack, Shield, Trade Tools (Farrier), Religious 
Symbol (Myrmidia)

 Knight – Silver 5

Skills: Cool, Dodge, Endurance, Intimidate, Language 
(Battle), Melee (Any), Lore (Warfare)
Talents: Seasoned Traveller, Savvy, Shieldsman, Strike 
To Injure
Trappings: Destrier with Saddle and Tack, Melee 
Weapon (Any), Lance, Plate Armour and Helm

 Hochmeister – Gold 2

Skills: Charm, Ranged (Any), Leadership, Research
Talents: Fearless (Any), Warleader, Disarm, Unshakeable
Trappings: Barding, Small Unit of Blazing Sun knights

 Knight of the Inner Circle – Gold 4

Skills: Secret Signs (Blazing Sun), Lore (Any)
Talents: Inspiring, Stout-hearted, Wealthy, Strike 
Mighty Blow
Trappings: Great Helm with Sun emblem, Squire, Large 
Unit of Knights or Several Small Units of Knights

32

IIIUP IN ARMS 
 
The  Blazing  Sun  command  structure  consists  of  a 

They must prove their intelligence and curiosity about the 

Grandmaster  in  the  Empire  who  oversees  outfits  known 

world,  demonstrating  interests  beyond  warfare,  such  as 

as  komturies  throughout  the  land.  Each  of  these  closely-

the arts, philosophy, engineering, or statecraft. An aspirant 

bonded fighting groups is commanded by a Hochmeister, 

must be wealthy, to pay for the forging of his own armour 

who leads his knights in battle and selects them carefully 

and  weaponry  and  must  provide  his  own  destrier.  The 

to fulfil specific missions. There are smaller crusading sub-

remainder of his wealth is given to the Order’s coffers, to 

orders,  most  notably  the  Knights  of  the  Corona  and  the 

be held in common for the service of his brothers-in-arms. 

Knights  of  the  Gleaming  Shield,  with  chapterhouses  in 

The exception to this selection process are knights who can 

Magritta and the Spice Port of Copher, respectively. Each 

trace  their  lineage  back  directly  to  one  of  the  Sixty  who 

is tasked with embodying the spirit of their parent order, 

first formed the Order. Even if their family has fallen into 

but with certain alterations intended to make them more 

poverty, they are deemed worthy to join the inner circle.

admirable in the eyes of the different cultures within which 

they operate. The Knights of the Verdant Field are knights 

Before becoming a novice, the majority fight as pistoliers to 

in name only, as they are elite foresters based in Talabheim.

learn the art of ranged combat. Once accepted all novices 

History
At  the  beginning  of  the  Crusades,  bands  of  knights 

are  expected  to  divide  their  time  between  intense  study, 

combat practice and learning about the world outside the 

komturie. An initiate to the Order is expected to wander 

marched  into  Estalia  to  expel  the  sorcerer’s  occupying 

the Old World for a year and a day, emulating the heroic 

armies.  In  1456  IC  a  group  of  sixty  knights  from  one 

deeds that Myrmidia performed as a mortal.

such  company  protected  Magritta  when  the  dreaded 

Black  Scimitar  Guard  attacked.  As  the  knights  fought 

During  this  period  the  knight  must  face  nine  trials, 

tenaciously  in  the  Temple  of  Myrmidia,  an  earthquake 

including  tests  of  knowledge,  inventiveness,  devotion  to 

shook  the  city.  A  colossal  bronze  statue  of  the  goddess 

Myrmidia, and skill with weaponry. Few pass on their first 

toppled onto the Arabyans and crushed them. The knights 

attempt and the Priests of Myrmidia explain patiently that 

praised  Myrmidia  and  swore  to  fight  in  her  name.  The 

a true knight must learn from failure. When they succeed, 

Order was later established in the Empire where it grew 

novices are knighted by one of the Inner Circle.

its reputation on the battlefield. They were among the first 

to support Magnus during the Great War Against Chaos.

Locations
The Order’s komturies are found in cities and large towns. 

Livery and armour
Knights  of  the  Order  wear  black-lacquered  armatures 

trimmed with polished gold. Their banners, horse barding, 

shields  and  breastplates  are  emblazoned  with  a  stylised 

The  seat  of  the  Grandmaster  is  in Talabheim,  where  the 

golden sun, symbolic of their conversion to Myrmidia in 

Order  built  its  first  temple.  There  are  also  substantial 

the sunbaked plazas of Estalia. The inner circle of the order 

komturies in Nuln, Wurtbad and Wissenburg. The Blazing 

are selected from the richest families, their high status is 

Suns have a limited presence in Middenland and Nordland, 

reflected in armour detailed in gold, jet, and diamond.

where  the  Cult  of  Ulric  makes  them  less  welcome. They 

maintain a small fleet in Marienburg to fight Norse pirates 

and serve the island komturie of Svunum, the Order’s most 

In Battle
Blazing  Suns  take  pride  in  versatility  and  ingenuity  in 

northerly holding. 

Entry into the Order
Petitioners  must  be  noble,  but  Hochmeisters  have  less 

combat.  Before  any  battle  they  study  the  disposition  of 

their foes, the lie of the land and any unusual circumstances. 

They  then  deploy  weapons  and  tactics  best  suited  to  the 

situation.  This  may  require  improvisation  or  invention, 

interest  in  status  or  regional  origin  than  they  do  in  the 

such  as  switching  weapons  mid-fight  or  using  mirrored 

quality of the aspirant. 

shields to blind the enemy.

33

IIIKNIGHTS OF THE EMPIREKNIGHT OF THE
WHITE WOLF

            Human

But Ulric’s faithful do not favour passive guard duty, so 

White Wolves are ever active in the field, hunting down 

all who threaten the god’s worshippers. Supreme authority 

sits with Ar-Ulric in Middenheim, but there are multiple 

You embody the ferocity and strength of the god of battle, wolves 

Grandmasters across the Empire and beyond.

and winter.

There are few sights more evocative of the Ulrican faith 

again.  Now,  you  can  either  fight  those  beastmen,  or  you  can 

‘Take  a  deep  breath  lad.  Good.  Now  look  over  that  parapet 

than  that  of  a  heavily  armoured  and  heroically  hirsute 

fight me — which is it going to be?

knight galloping into battle swinging a cavalry hammer. 

Good choice, girl.’

The  Knights  of  the White Wolf  are  the  largest  templar 

– Templar Sergeant Lars Gustafson to his squire, Ulrica 

order in the Empire, charged with protecting Ulric’s holy 

sites wherever they are found.

KNIGHT OF THE WHITE WOLF ADVANCE SCHEME

WS

BS

h

S

h

T

I

h

Agi Dex

Int WP

Fel

CaReeR path
h Novice – Silver 3
Skills: Athletics, Animal Care, Charm Animal, Heal, 
Lore (Heraldry), Melee (Basic), Melee (Cavalry), 
Outdoor Survival, Ride (Horse), Trade (Farrier)
Talents: Roughrider, Sturdy, Warrior Born, Hardy
Trappings: Leather Jack, Mail Shirt, Riding Horse 
with Saddle and Tack, Cavalry Hammer, Trade Tools 
(Farrier), Religious Symbol (Ulric)

 Knight – Silver 5

Skills: Cool, Dodge, Endurance, Intimidate, Language 
(Battle), Melee (Any)
Talents: Menacing, Seasoned Traveller, Strike Mighty 
Blow, Strike to Injure
Trappings: Destrier with Saddle and Tack, Plate 
Armour, Wolfskin Cloak

 Templar Sergeant – Gold 2

Skills: Consume Alcohol, Leadership, Lore (Warfare), 
Perception
Talents: Furious Assault, Unshakable, Fearless (Any), 
Warleader
Trappings: Barding, Small Unit of White Wolf knights

 Company Commander (Inner Circle) – Gold 3

Skills: Lore (Any), Secret Signs (Ulric)
Talents: Iron Will, Inspiring, Cool-headed, Implacable
Trappings: Novice, Company of White Wolf knights

34

IIIUP IN ARMSThe  White  Wolves  are  renowned  for  their  ferocity  in 

Middenheimers are proud of the White Wolves. The Feast 

battle, their intense loyalty to one another, and a tendency 

of  the  White  Wolf  is  an  annual  event  when  the  cult’s 

to impetuousness. They are more at home tearing into the 

faithful assemble on an ancient battlefield where the Order 

enemy than showing off on the parade ground or becoming 

fought  a  Chaos  horde  many  centuries  ago.  More  details 

mired in politics, which means that they are usually content 

of the Order in Middenheim can be found on page 22 of 

to follow their Grandmaster’s orders providing it leads to 

Middenheim: City of the White Wolf.

glorious battle.

Each Grandmaster oversees a chapter house with several 

The Grey Wolf Temple in the Grey Lady Pass is a fortress 

battle  companies. These  adopt  specific  colours  into  their 

garrisoned  by  a  company  that  patrols  the  pass  to  keep  it 

There  are  also  chapterhouses  in  more  remote  locations. 

heraldry.  For  instance,  the  Red  Company  are  local  to 

safe for travellers. 

Altdorf whilst the Blue Company have their headquarters 

outside the city of Middenheim. Each company dedicate 

a unit of their finest warriors to guard  the  High Temple 

Entry into the Order
The White Wolves are open to male nobles and commoners 

of  Ulric  in  Middenheim.  There  is  often  friendly  rivalry 

alike,  but  only  those  who  show  bravery  in  combat  and  a 

between  battle  companies,  who  compete  in  informal 

true dedication to Ulric are admitted. Candidates must be 

competitions,  such  as  wrestling,  axe  bouts,  and  feats  of 

sponsored by a senior priest, or a prominent Ulrican noble. 

hunting or strength.

Once  accepted,  a  novice  serves  as  a  squire  for  a  veteran 

knight in return for combat training.

History
The Cult of Ulric claim the White Wolves are the oldest 

When  the  novice’s  master  decides  he  is  ready,  he  is  put 

Knightly Order in the Empire, established as protectors of 

forward for initiation. After swearing to uphold the Order’s 

the Wolf God’s priests long before the coming of Sigmar. 

oaths (see below), he goes weaponless into the wilderness. 

But  it  was  many  centuries  before  the  holy  warriors  of 

Should he return with a wolf pelt, he is deemed worthy and 

Ulric  evolved  into  anything  resembling  a  knightly  order. 

knighted by a High Priest. If he does not return, the Wolf 

For  millennia  they  played  an  important  role  in  northern 

God has made his judgement.  A White Wolf is expected 

Imperial politics — the backing of a Grandmaster could 

to uphold the oaths of the Order at all times. He swears to 

resolve  many  a  power  struggle  without  a  drop  of  blood 

obey Ar-Ulric, protect the cult’s priests and temples, and 

spilled.  During  the  Age  of  Wars  and  Age  of  Three 

keep Ulric’s strictures.

Emperors, the Order split between those who sided with 

Middenland, Middenheim and later Talabheim when Ar-

Ulric decamped there in 1360 IC. 

Locations
The Order’s home is Middenheim, but all cities and most 

Livery and armour
The White Wolves prefer to ride into battle bare-headed, 

wielding  great  cavalry  hammers  and  forgoing  the  use  of 

shields. Livery is red, with a secondary colour taken from 

the relevant battle company. They wear the wolfskins they 

major towns have a White Wolf presence, with the number 

won  during  initiation  and  affect  a  wild  appearance,  with 

of knights dependent on the importance of Ulric and his 

long hair and beards blowing in the wind.

temple  amongst  the  local  populace. The  chapterhouse  in 

Altdorf  has  two  battle  companies  to  ensure  Reiklanders 

remember  Ulric’s  status,  whereas  the  Nuln  temple  has  a 

In Battle
Generals are always eager to field the White Wolves, for 

relatively small, relatively belligerent presence. 

their  ferocity  and  bravery  is  devastating  to  any  enemy 

army. But they are impulsive. When their blood is up they 

throw caution to the wind and charge into the fray.

35

IIIKNIGHTS OF THE EMPIREKNIGHT PANTHER
Human

The  Order  is  celebrated  for  prowess  in  battle,  a  fanatical 

hatred of mutants and a degree of political acumen which 

allows  them  to  stay  aloof  from  most  petty  disputes.  As 

You  are  dedicated  to  ensuring  the  fidelity  of  the  Empire  and 

such, they have become a symbol of a unified Empire.

defending it from Chaos.

‘People see the Empire, its shining armies, its fleets, its fortunes, 

The  Knights  Panther  are  the  most  widespread  secular 

its technological marvels, and they think it is strong. But it is 

order  in  the  Empire,  second  only  to  the  Reiksguard  in 

riven with division, sown through with Chaos, and beset on 

power.  They  are  not  aligned  with  any  province  and  will 

every side by terrible foes. The Empire is weak, Mistof, which is 

lend  military  aid  to  any  general  or  leaders  deserving  of 

why we must be strong.’

their support. 

– First Knight Matilda of Talabecland  

KNIGHT PANTHER ADVANCE SCHEME

WS

BS

h

S

h

T

I

h

Agi Dex

Int WP

Fel

CaReeR path
h Squire – Silver 3
Skills: Athletics, Animal Care, Charm Animal, Heal, 
Lore (Empire), Lore (Heraldry), Melee (Basic), Melee 
(Cavalry), Ride (Horse), Trade (Farrier)
Talents: Etiquette (any), Roughrider, Sturdy, Warrior Born
Trappings: Leather Jack, Mail Shirt, Riding Horse with 
Saddle and Tack, Shield, Trade Tools (Farrier)

 Knight – Silver 5

Skills: Cool, Dodge, Endurance, Intimidate, Language 
(Battle), Melee (Any)
Talents: Menacing, Shieldsman, Strike Mighty Blow, 
Coolheaded 
Trappings: Great Cat Pelt, Destrier with Saddle and 
Tack, Melee Weapon (Sword), Lance, Plate Armour and 
Great Helm with Bestial Crest, Ring or Medallion with 
Panther emblem

 First Knight Gold 2

Skills: Charm, Language (Any), Leadership, Lore (Warfare)
Talents: Fearless (Chaos), Stout-hearted, Unshakeable, 
Warleader
Trappings: Barding, Small Unit of Knights Panther

 Company Commander (Inner Circle) – Gold 4
Skills: Secret Signs (Knights Panther), Lore (Any)
Talents: Disarm, Inspiring, Iron Will, Strike to Injure
Trappings: Squire, Large Unit of Knights Panther or 
Several Small Units of Knights

36

IIIUP IN ARMS 
 
 
The  Knights  Panther  have  dozens  of  chapter  houses 

under  the  leadership  of  Grandmaster  Baron  Heinrich 

Entry into the Order
Almost  every  petitioner  to  the  Knights  Panther  comes 

von Torlichhelm. Some regiments adopt company names 

from  the  nobility.  However,  commoners  are  sometimes 

and tactics peculiar to themselves — examples include the 

accepted  when  they  have  displayed  ‘nobility  of  spirit’ 

Bared  Fang  Regiment,  who  are  known  for  fighting  with 

and  truly  remarkable  combat  prowess. The  Panthers  take 

escalating  zeal,  the  Panther’s  Claw  Squadron  who  fight 

more  squires  than  any  other  order,  but  they  still  require 

bravely  alongside  Dwarfs,  and  the  Savage  Cats  who  use 

sponsorship  by  a  First  Knight  or  member  of  the  Inner 

their lances to keep flying enemies at bay.

Circle. There is an unspoken agreement to refuse petitioners 

with strong devotion to a single god or partisan support for 

History
Like  so  many  orders,  the  Knights  Panther  originated 

a specific province.

during  the  Crusades  against  Araby.  A  grand  army  of 

Before  initiation,  squires  must  hunt  down  and  single-

knights from Bretonnia and the Empire battled the Sultan, 

handedly kill a mountain or forest cat. They must place the 

culminating in the Battle of Al-Haikk in 1451 IC. During 

pelt beneath their saddle to become full members of the 

the campaign, a brotherhood of knights looted the Sultan’s 

Order. Any member of the Order, from the servants to the 

palace  and  pleasure  gardens  for  gold,  jewels,  and  exotic 

Grandmaster, must abide by the following edicts:

animals. On their return to the Empire, this band became 

the  Knights  Panther,  named  for  the  beautiful  giant  cats 

they had taken from Al-Haikk. During the following 1000 

years, the Order grew in size and power. They took to the 

field in every major conflict that threatened the Empire — 

from  the Vampire Wars  to  the  Incursions  of  Chaos,  and 

0

0

0

0

every greenskin Waaagh! that crossed the mountains. 

Defend  the  integrity  of  the  Empire  and  defy  those 

who preach division or secession

Never suffer the bearer of the mark of Chaos to live

Render full and appropriate service to your superiors 

Remain true and loyal to the Order’s allies

Locations
There are significant chapter houses throughout the Empire, 

In certain times and places these oaths have been modified 

to  reflect  a  particular  circumstance,  the  most  notorious 

contemporary example being the particular (and peculiar) 

with the seat of the Grandmaster at Fort Tarielshof outside 

bond of mutual support the Middenheim Chapter shares 

Carroburg.  The  Middenheim  chapterhouse  is  significant 

with the ruling Todbringer family.

—  as  befits  the  sworn  guardians  of  Graf Todbringer.  In 

Talabheim,  the  Knights  Panther  are  the  elite  cavalry  in 

the  Elector’s  armies  under  the  command  of  Werner  von 

Livery and armour
The Knights Panther take great pride in their appearance 

Kriegstadt. The Panthers mount more foreign expeditions 

on  the  parade  ground  and  battlefield.  Their  heraldry 

than other orders. At any time there may be regiments of 

depicts a yellow panther on a blue field and their colours 

Panthers allying with the men and Dwarfs of the Border 

and their panoply reflects this, with lacquered armour and 

Princes, Estalia, Kislev, Tilea and Araby.

horse barding in the same tones. They are easily recognised 

A NASTY SURPRISE
Sir Jakob Vallenz is a veteran Knight Panther who has learned 
of a Khorne cult at work in the Forest of Shadows, who follow 
the Order’s companies wherever they battle Beastmen and draw 
strength from the bloodshed. He wants a group of resourceful 
types to uncover and destroy the cult — but given a possible link 
to the Panthers, he needs them to be discreet. This becomes 
even  more  important  when  the  Characters  discover  that  the 
cultists include brother knights.

by  the  great  cat  pelts  they  wear  and  their  distinctive  tall 

heraldic crests surmounted with a bestial head.

In Battle
Knights  Panther  employ  classic  shock  cavalry  tactics, 

charging  in,  then  fighting  with  sword  and  shield  to 

overcome their enemy. They are renowned for impeccable 

manoeuvres,  each  regiment  moving  as  one.  Although 

accomplished fighters, they are reluctant to fight on foot.

37

IIIKNIGHTS OF THE EMPIRE 
 
 
 
38

IIIUP IN ARMSNotes upon Contemplating Mediocre Umgi HarnessThe first thing any Dawi smith notices about Umgi-made armour is how thin and pliable it is. The steel of several breastplates I examined were barely the thickness of the nail of a big toe, and I could take it in my hands and flex it with little effort. Despite this apparent flimsiness, the steel was well forged and tempered; even when subjected to significant duress, it came springing back into its intended shape. The thin sheet could not withstand the same punishment as equivalent pieces of armour produced by Dawi smiths, but we must not judge the Umgi armour on its durability alone. Miserliness and incompetence may account for certain shortcomings of the armour, but the steel is necessarily light and thin so that it can be borne by the feeble Umgi frame upon which it is worn.The second thing one notices is the terrible stench that comes off Umgi armour. This is because if you say the word ‘galvanise’ to your typical Manling smith he’ll stare at you with all the incomprehension of an inebriated Cave Troll. Instead, they deal with rusting suits by polishing the metal with a coarse paste of sand mixed with their own urine.Manling smiths typically use rivets and leather strapping in order to hold their suits of armour together as a coherent unit, welds being beyond the ability of most of them. Here we see pieces of armour produced in the land of Tilea and known as a Miraglianese harness. This design of suit is popular even in the Empire, where local smiths prefer to embellish on the designs rather than put in the honest labour required to forge their own. Here is a guide to the inefficient terminology Manlings use to describe their underwhelming mail.Helms worn by Manling knights come in a bewildering array of designs, ever changing according to the fleeting fads that prevent the establishment of true best practices and crafting traditions. This design is commonly known as an armet. It is padded with a layer of wool which is stitched into a lining which is then riveted to the inside of the helm. This is to protect the delicate Umgi skull without causing discomfort. Proper Dawi helms are lined with tough padded leather, which is less comfy but rather more durable and better at absorbing shock. The visor of the helm is removed by withdrawing a pin from either side. These pins are often lost in battle, compromising the helm. The helms of Dawi Ironbreakers do not suffer from this flaw because our smiths know the value of taking the time to craft a proper hinge. The faceplate, known also as a wrapper, covers the visor and cheek pieces. That so many pieces of metal are required to form one helm woefully compromises its strength and integrity. Only the blind among you will fail to see that an Imperial smith has added fancy decorations declaring their fealty to the Dwarf-friend Sigmar. Admirable, but do they need to be 39

IIIKNIGHTS OF THE EMPIREsuch overly elaborate adornments when a neat bit of runic script would do the same job without compromising the integrity of the structure? As for the ludicrous crest, least said soonest mended.The large shoulder guards are called gardbraces by the Umgi. They are outsized and over-elaborate pieces that are pinned to the pauldron due to the Manling love of conducting warfare from the back of galloping nags, being so formed as to best absorb the impact of a lance. More leather straps and rivets are employed to fix the armour in place, the whole affair being so complex that an armoured Manling is dependent on the support of an assistant known as an arming squire just to get in and out of their suits. The thin strips of steel used to make the armour articulate are known as lames and they attach to the couter (what we would call the elbow cover) through an intricate system of rivets. This design isn’t too bad really, being inspired by the work of our own smiths in the days of High King Ironbeard, the Umgi having just about mastered its fundamentals.The cuisse is a flange pierced with holes that is attached to the bottom of the flimsy doublet most Manlings wear under their breastplates. It is made from leather and so will wear out before so much as a century of use. The poleyn, which is what sensible folk would call a kneecap, is fitted to more lames allowing the leg to bend without exposing any bare flesh. The greave, or calf armour, is trapped over the inside of the leg. You may remark on the ridiculous tapered sabatons Manlings wear on their feet. You’d be tripping over yourself if you had to march down the Ungdrin Ankor wearing such monstrosities! Again, their design is explained due to the strange desire to make war from horseback, the pointed ends making it easier for an Umgi knight to find a way into their stirrups.•

DOGS OF WAR 

•

‘“Dogs of War”, they call us — “mercenaries”, like it’s something 

Mercenary  companies  often  form  in  the  aftermath  of  a 

bad. But I tell yer it’s the way to live like a duke. Regular pay 

large military action. When peace returns many soldiers 

and food, chances for loot, and seein’ the sights in every new 

are unwanted. Those who can return to making a living 

town you come to. Of course, sometimes you have to burn them 

as  a  civilian  do  so,  but  many  others  know  nothing  but 

to the ground, but that’s just business.’

soldiering. These band together and offer their services to 

— Recruiter to a young labourer

the highest bidder.

‘Left!  Right!  Left!  Righ…  No,  your  other  right,  Squig  for 

This can be convenient for those who would hire them, 

brains! You march like that, the Goblins will be sticking you 

as  although  they  are  more  expensive  per  man,  they  are 

full of holes before you can even untangle your feet!’

usually  experienced  and  competent  soldiers,  and  work 

— Miraglianese drill sergeant

out cheaper as they are hired on much shorter contracts. 

meRCenaRies
There  are  any  number  of  mercenary  companies  plying 

Mercenaries can be a problem in peacetime, however, as 

they often turn to banditry, or even adventuring.

their  trade  in  and  around  the  Empire. These  can  range 

The most ambitious mercenaries in the Empire gravitate 

from  highly  respected  and  disciplined  veteran  units  to 

towards Kislev or the Border Princes to find their fortune. 

little more than bands of desperate brigands.

A  fortunate  few  return  rich  with  tales  of  exotic  locales 

and derring-do, most are never heard from again.

40

IVLAND OF MERCENARIES

The  early Tileans  were  lucky  that  their  lands  remained 

largely free of monstrous creatures but in 475 IC a vast 

Mercenaries are in such demand in the Old World (and 

horde  of  Orcs  and  Goblins  invaded  from  the  east. The 

beyond)  that  companies  have  arisen  all  over  —  even 

Tilean merchants were not used to fighting invaders — 

Dwarf  mercenaries  are  known,  though  their  price  is 

most of their battles were against each other — and the 

predictably  high.  However,  when  most  citizens  of  the 

sudden appearance of Orcs burning crops, torching farms, 

Old  World  hear  the  word  mercenary  they  think  of  the 

and making off with the merchant caravans was a shock. 

professional companies formed from the soldiers of Tilea.

Things  grew  increasingly  perilous  when  certain  Tilean 

When  an  Imperial  citizen  thinks  of  Tilea,  they  might 

princes hired Orcs to carry out mayhem on their behalf. 

imagine its great artists or Tilea’s legendary cuisine and 

When  the  Count  of  Zelucco  stormed  Amato  and 

fine  wines.  Maybe,  too,  they  grimace  and  remember 

reclaimed his family’s crown, the great city states feared 

predatory pirate crews, or the organised racketeer families 

this  was  only  the  start.  They  panicked  when  Zelucco’s 

that plague cities such as Nuln. But Tilea also has another 

army,  reinforced  with  Goblins  from  the  Appucinis, 

export, one that has long played a crucial role in Imperial 

crushed  a  Reman  militia.  Only  the  onset  of  the  rainy 

history:  Mercenaries.  The  ‘Dogs  of  War’.  Professional 

season  stopped  the  ‘Black  Count’  from  marching  on 

soldiers who sell their services to the highest bidders.

Remas itself.

The Dogs of War have fought across the world, and their 

Enter Rienzi, who came to be known as ‘the Magnificent’, 

reputation for skill and professionalism makes their high 

a priest of Myrmidia. Rienzi had studied all the cult’s holy 

fees worthwhile to many. Many captains have cultivated a 

texts. When word came of Remas’s defeat, this younger 

dashing, heroic image to add to their lustre.

son of a Reman merchant family saw an opportunity to 

honour his goddess — and make a profit. He offered to 

There  is  a  dark  side,  though.  When  war  is  a  business, 

build the city’s rulers an invincible army if they signed a 

loyalty  often  goes  to  the  person  with  the  fattest  purse. 

binding contract and paid his fee. Desperate and afraid, 

Some mercenaries have a reputation for switching sides 

they agreed. Over the winter Rienzi recruited and trained 

in the middle of a campaign. And woe betide an employer 

an  army,  drilling  them  over  and  over  in  Myrmidian 

who  breaks  their  contract  —  more  than  one  has  found 

precepts of strategy and tactics, paying them well so they 

their  own  holdings  sacked  and  themselves  put  to  the 

could serve full-time. 

sword in revenge. 

oRigins
Warriors  have  always  sold  their  services  for  money  or 

In  spring,  the  ‘Eagles  of  Remas’  crushed  the  Black 

Count’s army in the Battle of Blood Ford. Monte Scorri’s 

heavy cavalry charged Rienzi’s pikemen again and again, 

other  rewards,  but  mercenaries  as  they  are  commonly 

but couldn’t break through. Meanwhile, the crossbowmen 

known in the Old World first developed in Tilea. From 

loosed  volley  after  volley  into  the  Goblins,  who  broke 

early times the merchants of Tilea hired soldiers to defend 

when  Rienzi’s  cavalry  slammed  into  their  flanks.  The 

their ships from pirates and to escort their merchandise 

Black Count’s army fell apart, and he died while trying to 

on overland trade routes. Warehouses and property also 

escape across the river. Remas was saved.

had to be guarded and so it became usual for merchants 

to  maintain  troops.  Mercantile  families  also  used  their 

Instead of sending his men home, however, Rienzi kept 

mercenaries to further political ambitions at home, either 

them in service. Offers were pouring in from other city-

to  make  themselves  absolute  rulers  of  their  cities,  or  to 

states, and Rienzi knew a money-maker when he saw it.

oppose such tyrants and proclaim a republic.

41

IVDOGS OF WARThe mercenary army marched out to meet the Orc tribes. 

so the Graf could go buy his own soldiers, ‘if His Vaunted 

Rienzi pitched his tent on one side of a mighty river from 

Highness  would  then  graciously  leave  us  alone’.  The  Graf 

where  he  could  observe  the  enemy  encampments.  He 

agreed,  since  he  wouldn’t  have  to  deal  as  often  with 

noticed that various Orc contingents would occasionally 

‘rancorous, ill-disciplined burghers who barely know the sharp 

fight each other, indeed the whole army was plainly riven 

end from the butt’. The donation became a regular custom, 

with  dissent  and  only  the  personal  attention  of  the  big 

and the idea soon spread, with wealthy individuals paying 

Orc warlord was keeping it together. 

to have someone take their place.

Rienzi decided that rather than fight the Orcs they would 

simply hire half the Orc army to fight in the other half. 

In Tilea
The Dogs of War reached their purest form in Tilea. In 

That way, no matter which side won the Tileans couldn’t 

the  city-states,  where  riots  are  a  regular  occurrence,  the 

possibly  lose,  and  the  spoils  won  by  the  victorious  half 

Merchant  Houses  prefer  hiring  outsiders  to  do  their 

would pay the cost of hiring them.

fighting, rather than arming and training a potential mob. 

Most maintain watchmen and militia, but the Watch is 

Thanks to the example of Rienzi, soon other entrepreneurs 

meant for patrolling streets and checking doors, not war, 

were raising their own mercenaries, and Tilea’s ‘Dogs of 

while the militias train so infrequently that they are little 

War’ became one of the land’s main exports.

better  than  a  rabble.  Miragliano  did  away  with  them 

the RoLe of meRCenaRies
Mercenary  forces  meet  several  needs. They  allow  rulers 

altogether,  maintaining  a  large  army  of  mercenaries  on 

long-term contracts that also acts as a Watch, when not 

on campaign. They even employ a cadre of Rat Catchers, 

to quickly build ‘off the shelf ’ armies that only have to be 

professional soldiers specially trained to patrol the canals 

paid  for  the  duration  of  their  contracts,  saving  the  cost 

and  sewers  to  deal  with  the  swarms  of  rats  and  ratlike 

of maintaining large forces all year round. In peacetime, 

creatures that creep out of the Blighted Marshes.

the  nobility  and  freibergs  only  need  a  small  core  of 

professionals  and  local  levies.  Mercenaries  also  provide 

Of the other Tilean States, only Remas recruits its own 

specialist services an employer isn’t capable or willing to 

citizens, selling the right to recruit to contractor-captains 

develop on its own — miners and master siege engineers, 

called  condottieri  for  a  period  of  service,  after  which 

for example.

they’re  free  to  seek  work  elsewhere.  Luccini,  on  the 

other hand, hires far and wide, even among the detested 

Dogs of War are also popular with those seeking to avoid 

Estalians,  because  of  the  need  to  garrison  the  fortress 

military  service.  Laws  in  many  parts  of  the  Old  World 

of  Monte  Castello,  which  guards  the  frontier  with  the 

bind  guildsmen  to  serve  in  their  town’s  forces  in  return 

Border Princes.

for  the  privilege  of  doing  business. That  of  course  risks 

encouraging merchants to move elsewhere.

Tobaro, built into cliffs hard against the Tilean Sea and 

with  the  Abasko  mountains  behind  her,  has  little  land 

The  custom  of  the  ‘shilling  soldier’  first  arose  in 

to  defend.  But  the  sea  is  her  lifeblood,  and  the  tunnels 

Bögenhafen.  When  the  old  Graf  von  Saponatheim 

beneath  and  beyond  the  city’s  bounds  hold  many 

demanded all the apprentices and journeymen from the 

dangers  —  Greenskins  and  worse.  And  so Tobaro  hires 

Clothiers’ Guild for four months’ military service, it was 

specialised  mercenaries,  sappers,  and  tunnel  fighters,  as 

simply too much. The guild was expecting a large order 

well as marines to guard their ships.

from Marienburg, but, if they couldn’t meet the deadline 

because  of  a  lack  of  tradesmen,  the  business  would  go 

Sartosa is unique, serving as mercenary privateers — ‘Sea 

elsewhere.  So  they  made  a  proposal:  the  guild  offered  a 

Dogs  of  War’  —  in  one  season,  then  preying  on  those 

‘donation’ of ‘a shilling a head’ (later raised to a Crown) 

same clients the next year as pirates. 

42

IVUP IN ARMSLuccini  hires  Sartosan  ships  to  protect  their  commerce 

In the Empire, authorities often look askance at anyone 

and  coasts  from  Arabyan  corsairs,  while  Marienburg 

trying  to  hire  armed  men,  at  least  more  than  a  few.  It’s 

reportedly pays them to harry the shipping of Magritta 

one thing to hire mercenaries to guard a mine in the hills, 

and Bilbali. Though Sartosa seems anarchic, one firm rule 

but,  with  its  history  of  civil  war  and  rebellion,  nobles 

holds true: never attack ships guarded by other Sartosan 

and towns recruiting large numbers of mercenaries look 

captains. That is bad for business. The last to break it, the 

suspicious.  Isn’t  the  State  Army  enough,  or  their  own 

Brettonian Captain ‘One-Eye’ Guillaume, was eventually 

private armed retinues?

captured  by  his  fellow  captains.  He  is  now  known  as 

‘Blind Will’.

In The Empire
Mercenaries  in  the  Empire  supplement  existing  forces, 

Yet  they  recognize  that  sometimes  there  is  a  need. 

Though  the  laws  vary,  would-be  generals  must  buy  a 

‘licence to recruit’ from the local rulers, either a noble or 

a freiberg’s council. This gives them permission to recruit 

rather  than  forming  the  whole  army. This  is  due  to  the 

and  operate  in  that  ruler’s  territory. The  higher  up  one 

belief in many parts that your own people will fight harder 

goes,  the  broader  the  area  the  licence  covers.  Only  the 

for you than any mercenary just ‘doing it for the shilling’. 

Elector  Count’s  court  can  grant  a  writ  that  covers  an 

When Orcs come rampaging from the Black Mountains, 

entire Grand Province, a daunting and expensive prize.

Stirlanders in the State Army know they are fighting for 

their homes. Mercenaries might well decide to go home.

While  this  is  how  it  is  supposed  to  work,  corruption 

and  turmoil  can  lead  to  abuse.  Many  nobles  have  hired 

Middenland  and  Talabecland  employ 

the 

fewest 

mercenaries  in  one  territory  to  attack  another;  when 

mercenaries,  as  Ulricans  tend  to  look  down  on  anyone 

the  victims  complain  to  the  authorities  who  issued  the 

doing  their  fighting  for  them.  Mercenaries  are  more 

licence,  they  pretend  to  be  as  shocked  as  anyone  (and 

accepted in the west and south. In Reikland, the Grand 

forget  to  mention  the  bribes  they  received  to  look  the 

Prince’s  mercenaries  augment  the  State  Army  to  a  size 

other way).

few of even the great nobles can match. Nuln has gone 

furthest  down  this  road.  Small  in  territory,  but  wealthy 

beyond  belief,  the  Grand  Counts  have  signed  many 

Dogs of War to long-term contracts as the core of Nuln’s 

State  Army,  while  Nulners  are  more  often  gunners  and 

engineers.

hiRing meRCenaRies
Though  Tilean  city  governments  and  nobles  do  their 

own  recruiting,  anyone  else  seeking  armed  help  goes  to 

the mercenary guild hall usually attached to the nearest 

temple  of  Myrmidia.  There,  after  making  a  suitable 

donation  to  the  guild,  the  resident  Master  —  often  a 

retired  mercenary  who  has  joined  the  priesthood  — 

brings  client  and  mercenary  together  and  arranges  the 

contract,  the  temple  keeping  a  copy  and  mediating  any 

dispute.

FEES
Though  Myrmidia’s  priests  expect  a  few  Crowns  for  their 

mediation services, they recognize that not all in need can afford 

their price. If a supplicant cannot afford gold, they will accept 

barter — a few sheep or cattle, a share of the crops, or a pledge 

of service. Even a few copper coins, as long as the cause seems 

worthy. Myrmidians also trade in insight and information, so 

if a petitioner comes to them with credible accounts of fresh 

tactical or strategic technique, this serves well in place of funds.

43

IVDOGS OF WARLIGHT CAVALRY
Human, High Elf

You rely on speed to find the enemy, screen your allies from his 

‘We never had a chance, sir. They came out of nowhere. Before 

scouts, and strike without warning where he least expects.

we could turn they were in among us, shouting their chilling 

With  fewer  heavily  armed  and  armoured  knights  than 

them, sir, but these were not men — they were Daemons on 

the Empire, Tilean mercenary armies rely on fast, lightly 

horseback.’ 

armed  horsemen  to  provide  mobile  striking  power. 

– Gunther Friesheim, after the Rout of Riffraffa

battle-cries  as  they  rode  us  down.  It  is  true  we  ran  from 

Rather than charge headlong into the teeth — and pikes 

— of the foe, Tilean light cavalrymen, called Stradioti in 

their language, prefer to strike from the flanks or, best of 

all, the rear, where the enemy’s baggage train presents a 

tempting target.

LIGHT CAVALRY ADVANCE SCHEME

BS

S

WS

h

T

h

I

Ag

h

Dex

Int WP

Fel

44

IVUP IN ARMSCareer Pathh Reiver – Brass 3Skills: Animal Care, Dodge, Endurance, Haggle, Heal, Language (Battle), Melee (Basic), Outdoor Survival, Ranged (Throwing), Ride (Horse)Talents: Etiquette (Mercenaries), Field Dressing, Flee!, Strong BackTrappings: Shield or Buckler, Leather Jack, Riding Horse with Saddle and Tack, Javelin Light Cavalry – Silver 2Skills: Charm, Consume Alcohol, Gamble, Gossip, Melee (Cavalry), Ranged (Bow)Talents: Combat Aware, Orientation, Rover, Rough RiderTrappings: Light Warhorse, Mail Coat, Open Helm Lance – Silver 5Skills: Drive, Intuition, Leadership, Lore (Warfare)Talents: Combat Reflexes, Rapid Reload, Seasoned Traveller, Trick RidingTrappings: Lance, Mail Chausses, Squire, Page Captain – Gold 1Skills: Lore (Law or Heraldry), Ranged (Blackpowder)Talents: Commanding Presence, Dealmaker, Inspiring, War LeaderTrappings: Brace of Pistols with Gunpowder and Ammunition, Warhorse, Flamboyant Clothing, Breastplate Though  Stradioti  can  come  from  any  part  of  Tilea  — 

The basic unit of light cavalry is the ‘Talon’, comprising 

typically  the  small  towns  and  hinterlands  of  the  great 

one  of  each  of  the  first  three  tiers. The  Lance  leads  the 

city-states — the original and still most highly regarded 

unit,  has  the  best  armour,  and  fights  with  lance  and 

are born and raised among the mountain villages of the 

javelin or bow. 

Appucini  chain  and  the  small  holdings  of  the  western 

Border Princes. 

The Squire wears only partial armour and fights to protect 

the  unshielded  side  of  the  Lance. The  Page  is  usually  a 

A  life  of  constant  raiding  and  defending  against  raids, 

youth in their teens learning the trade — riding, weapons, 

whether  from  Humans,  Goblins,  or  Beastmen,  has 

and  basic  first  aid  —  while  acting  as  a  servant  to  the 

bred  mounted  warriors  who  hit  their  target  fast,  cause 

others and fighting on foot. The final tier is the Captain, 

as  much  confusion  and  panic  as  possible,  and  then  ride 

who commands several Talons and makes contracts.

away before the enemy can react. Light horsemen from 

the desert lands of Araby perform much like the Tilean 

Stradioti and many companies of Arabyan horsemen work 

with mercenary commanders. Ungol horsemen from the 

northern steppes also fulfil a similar role in the armies of 

Kislev, and their companies, known as rota, can be found 

working as mercenaries.

In the Empire, light cavalry units are employed mostly in 

the  southern  Grand  Provinces  and  the  Reikland,  where 

their ability to function in both rough terrain and plains 

makes  them  useful  as  scouts  and  quick-reaction  forces. 

Though  still  largely Tilean,  more  and  more  recruits  are 

coming  from  Imperials  looking  for  something  more 

exciting  than  marching  back  and  forth.  Sudenland  has 

long  employed  Stradioti  to  patrol  its  southern  reaches, 

and The Elector’s Own Lancers is a highly regarded outfit.

A FIRESIDE TALE
Late at night under the stars in a small town nestled into the 
Appucini foothills, a retired Stradiot goes back to telling his 
rapt grandchildren a tale of adventure.

‘That was a glorious day. The Duke of Alvazzo, just a jumped-

up bandit who’d stumbled on a tower full of gold, had hired a 

bunch of Orcs to be his army while he made himself lord of 

the region. Promised ’em what every Orc wants — fresh tender 

Human flesh to eat, just like the meat clinging to your own 

bones!’ 

He laughed as his grandchildren gasped and squealed.

‘The  locals  hired  us  to  put  a  stop  to  it,  and  the  Captain’s 

plan was a good one. He pinned Alvazzo and his Orcs at the 

river, feinting like he was going to force a crossing. That gave 

me  time  to  take  most  of  the  cavalry  through  an  old  forest 

track  that  came  out  in  their  rear.  They  never  knew  what  hit 

them. Whooping and hollering, we charged into their camp like 

daemons from the Wastes. Just as Alvazzo started to organise 

a defence, the Captain struck across the ford, and that was it. 

The Orcs panicked and ran for the hills — those we didn’t cut 

down first. When it was over, not one in five got away. It was 

years before they’d show their ugly faces again.

‘Never  did  find  Alvazzo,  though.  I  heard  later  he’d  made  a 

fine meal for the Orc chief — as the main course. Not that I 

blame the Orc. As a mercenary, you want to get paid, and a 

deal is a deal.’

45

IVDOGS OF WARSIEGE SPECIALIST
Dwarf, Human, High Elf

It is your job to bring down castle walls and to keep others from doing 

so. Let other poor fools storm the walls — you’ll provide cover, or a 
more subtle way in.

‘As  they  approached  our  hearts  sank.  Braganza’s  men  never 

lost or fled and we knew we were doomed. Our captain began 

to explain how safe we were behind the walls until a bolt took 

him through the throat. No one wanted to be next.’ 

Though besieging fortified places is common throughout 

– Gunther Friesheim, on the Capture 

the  Old  World  —  an  art  Humans  learned  from  the 

Dwarfs — it has reached its highest refinement in Tilea, 

of Schloss Adlerberg

whose  Siege  Specialists  even  Dwarfs  will  grudgingly 

‘Arrows  are  useless  against  a  castle  —  you  can  only  win 

admit are ‘passable’.

SIEGE SPECIALIST ADVANCE SCHEME

by  using  heavy  wall-breaching  equipment,  which  is  why 

Dwarfs are superior in siege warfare. If you are the besieger, 

you can’t hit anything worthwhile at all. If you are inside the 

castle, you might think arrow fire would be effective from the 

towers, but what would you prefer to be hit by — a pointy 

WS

BS

S

T

I

Ag

Dex

Int WP

Fel

stick or a thirty-pound rock?’

h h h

– Berndt Lavaspear, -1778 IC

46

IVUP IN ARMSCareer Pathh Crossbowman – Silver 1 Skills: Athletics, Climb, Consume Alcohol, Endurance, Gamble, Gossip, Language (Battle), Melee (Basic), Outdoor Survival, Ranged (Crossbow)Talents: Etiquette (Mercenaries), Marksman, Rapid Reload, Strong BackTrappings: Crossbow and Ammunition, Hand Weapon, Pavise, Leather Jack and Skullcap, Feathered Hat Siege Specialist – Silver 3Skills: Intuition, Lore (Engineering), Melee (Two-handed), Perception, Set Trap, Trade (Miner)Talents: Enclosed Fighter, Hardy, Orientation, Tunnel RatTrappings: Two-handed Pick, Shovel Sapper – Silver 5Skills: Leadership, Ranged (Blackpowder, Engineering), Trade (Explosives)Talents: Accurate Shot, Craftsman (Explosives), Gunner, UnshakeableTrappings: Book of Ballistics Tables, Set of Six 60-second Fuses, Plate Breastplate, Pistol with Bullets and Ammunition, Trade Tools (Engineer) Siege Master – Gold 1Skills: Haggle, Lore (Law), Ride (Horse)Talents: Combat Aware, Master Tradesman (Engineering), Savvy, War LeaderTrappings: Quality Clothes, Light Warhorse, Pavilion Tent with Body Servant‘Remember when you build a wall to shelter behind you are 

also  building  a  trap.  If  the  wall  is  strong  and  flanked  by 

towers the enemy will be trapped — but if the wall is carried 

then  the  other  walls  will  hem  in  your  defenders  and  leave 

them ripe for massacre.’

– Attributed to Magnus the Pious, 2302 IC

‘The  only  possible  way  an  attacker  can  carry  one  of  those 

accursed stone forts is to advance under the heaviest barrage of 

missiles possible. This is where Elf forces achieve their greatest 

successes.  The  defenders,  unable  to  spread  out,  are  ripe  for 

slaughter beneath a cloud of arrows, and cannot deploy much 

effective missile fire of their own, hampered by the limited arcs 

of fire within their walls.’

– Attributed to Allurian, -3325 IC

Sieging became an art in Tilea during the age when cities 

and towns threw off their princes and needed to find ways 

past  the  castle  walls  of  defiant  rural  nobility  —  or  the 

walls  of  rival  city-states.  Simply  camping  outside  until 

the  defenders  starve  or  surrender  risks  being  caught  in 

the open by a relief force, or seeing disease ravage one’s 

own army.

But  storming  a  fortress  almost  inevitably  means  heavy 

casualties  among 

the  besiegers, 

something  every 

commander wants to avoid. Skilled troops are expensive 

to  train  and  maintain,  and  a  captain  who  gains  a 

reputation  for  bloodthirsty  assaults  soon  finds  it  hard 

to  recruit  replacements.  The  Siege  Specialist  allows  an 

army to shorten a siege at a reasonable cost in lives — the 

other side’s. At the same time, the daunting prospect of 

A VETERAN’S ADVICE
‘No, you don’t get to go blowing things up right away, ya wet-
pants recruit! You have to earn your way up to “banger”, as we 
call it. There’s a lot more to the job than just lightin’ a fuse 

and runnin’ for cover. I’ll explain it to you again, and this time 

pay attention! First you start as a crossbowman, picking enemies 

off the walls who are trying to kill our boys. You stay behind 

your pavise and watch, learn, and shoot. And if the enemy sallies 

out, you and that pavise are the first line of defence, so keep 

your sword sharp!

‘When  you’ve  learned  that  job,  you  move  up  to  Sapper  and 

down into the tunnels. You dig under the walls, rigging ’em so 

we can bring them down or sneak our boys into the castle, or 

sometimes you’re digging a covered ditch so the assault troops 

can get close without worrying about rocks getting dropped on 

their heads. Just keep your head about you down there. It can 

get rough if you run into enemy Sappers — or worse, know what 

I mean? Squeak-squeak.

‘If  you  survive  all  that,  you  might  get  to  be  a  “banger,”  or 

“artillerist”, as they like to call themselves. They get to play with 

them trebuchets, hurling rocks and even bombs to bust holes 

in the walls and smash the gates, or make life miserable inside. 

When the Sapper has dug his tunnel, it’s the banger who makes 

the whole thing go BOOM. Just try to be out of the tunnel 

before it goes off.’

Braganza’s Besiegers
During  his  campaign  of  conquest  Borgio  the  Besieger 

specialists outside the walls creates a need for specialists 

desired  a  new  model  of  regiment.  He  demanded 

inside, ones who can intercept the enemy’s tunnels before 

marksmen  that  could  pick  off  defenders  from  rampart 

the walls collapse.

walls  whilst  withstanding  missile  fire  aimed  in  their 

direction.  He  wanted  the  same  men  to  be  able  to  hold 

In  the  Empire,  Siege  Specialists  are  mainly  Dwarfs, 

castle  ramparts  in  defence  of  attack,  provide  covering 

thanks to their long shared history. Why hire anyone else, 

fire for sappers and miners, man siege towers, and prove 

when you can have the best? But Tilean Siege Specialists 

hardy fighters in the event of an enemy sally. Braganza’s 

are  almost  as  good  —  and  less  expensive  —  and  so  are 

crossbowmen, equipped with heavy armour and pavises, 

hired more and more by lesser nobles and freistadts who 

proved fit for the task — though their extensive expertise 

don’t want to pay ‘Dwarf rates’.

is reflected in their expensive rates.

47

IVDOGS OF WARPIKEMAN
Human

Discipline and drill. If you keep your wits about you and the enemy in 

front, no force on a battlefield, not even the heaviest Imperial knights, 
can stop a phalanx of Pikemen.

‘No, they didn’t look dangerous, more like a bunch of rich kids 

out to show off in their new armour. Very flashy they were, 

all gems and silk. We’ll have a bit of fun, we thought. Easy 

pickings, we thought. Well, anyone can make a mistake. Poor 

All  towns  and  villages  in  the  Old  World  have  their 

captain Malvino, last mistake he ever made.’

militias, masses of armed residents who can be turned out 

– Overheard in the Old Pig and Whistle, Marienburg

on short notice to defend homes and fields or fight for a 

few weeks in their lord’s service. Their lack of discipline 

and desire to return home to families and trades, however, 

makes  them  of  limited  use  on  long  campaigns  or  when 

facing heavily armed and armoured horsemen.

PIKEMAN ADVANCE SCHEME

BS

S

T

I

Ag

Dex

Int WP

Fel

h h

WS

h

48

IVUP IN ARMSCareer Pathh Recruit – Brass 5 Skills: Athletics, Climb, Consume Alcohol, Dodge, Endurance, Gamble, Language (Battle), Language (Tilean), Melee (Basic), Melee (Polearm) Talents: Drilled, Reaction Strike, Very Strong, Warrior Born Trappings: Hand Weapon, Leather Breastplate, Leather Skullcap, Pike, Uniform in Unit Colours Pikeman – Silver 1 Skills: Cool, Gossip, Heal, Intimidate, Lore (Warfare), Outdoor Survival Talents: Diceman, Enclosed Fighter, Etiquette (Mercenaries), Fearless (Cavalry) Trappings: Dice, Mail Coat, Open Helm File Leader – Silver 4Skills: Haggle, Intuition, Leadership, Perception Talents: Combat Aware, Combat Reflexes, Field Dressing, Robust Trappings: Plate Breastplate, Sash of Rank Banner Captain – Gold 1Skills: Lore (Law), Ride (Horse)Talents: Inspiring, Unshakable, Very Resilient, War LeaderTrappings: Baton of Rank, Banner-Bearer, Light Warhorse, Quality Uniform, Plate Bracers and Leggings, Phalanx of Pikemen, Unit BannerThe  Pikeman  developed  from  Tilean  militias  when  a 

Desperate to bring in funds Captain Ricco led the Guard 

need  arose  for  infantry  in  long-term  service  who  could 

in search of employment in other Tilean cities. The Guard 

stand up to armoured cavalry — or wolf-riding goblins. 

fought well, earning a reputation as an elite phalanx that 

Formed in large squares with the first three ranks of pikes 

survives to the present day.

pointed forward and the rest held high to guard against 

arrows, the pike phalanx presents a formidable sight. Few 

animals willingly charge a forest of spear points pointed 

The Leopard Company
The  mercenaries  of  the  Leopard  Company  fight  hard 

at  them,  and  infantry  must  dodge  multiple  attackers 

to  recover  their  lost  honour. Their  Captain,  Leopold  di 

before even closing with a pikeman.

Lucci, once contended with Lorenzo Lupo to be Prince 

of Luccini. Leopold’s men were losing ground, and blame 

But the phalanx has weaknesses. Not very manoeuvrable, 

fell  on  the  Priests  at  Luccini’s Temple  of  the  Leopard, 

it  cannot  execute  swift  turns  or  changes  of  face. Taken 

who  switched  sides  during  the  fighting.  Leopold’s  men 

in  the  flanks  —  or  worse,  from  behind  —  Pikemen  are 

threw the inconstant priests into the Tilean Sea. 

at  risk  of  panic  and  a  loss  of  discipline  that  can  easily 

turn fatal. And so they are most commonly the core of a 

Lorenzo  prevailed  and  was  hailed  Prince  of  Luccini. 

mercenary army, their vulnerable sides covered by cavalry 

Leopold and his men were exiled, and since then bad luck 

and crossbowmen.

has dogged the company. Recently Leopold has arranged 

for a portion of the loot made by his men to be returned 

In  the  Empire,  pike  formations  are  less  commonly 

to the Temple, and the fortunes of the Leopard Company 

employed,  but  can  be  found  in  the  service  of  the  State 

are improving.

Armies of Reikland and Nuln. In peacetime, these troops 

also serve to restore order, the points of their pikes well-

suited to clearing rioters from the streets.

The Alcatani Fellowship
The  life  of  a  farmer  is  never  an  easy  one  in  the  war-

torn  land  of  Tilea.  Even  wealthy  landowners  suffer. 

When  Rodrigo  Delmonte  found  his  crops  ruined  by  a 

rampaging  army  he  embarked  on  the  only  course  of 

action that remained to him, he became a soldier and led 

his  workforce  to  Remas  where  he  bought  some  shoddy 

suits  of  armour,  a  few  second-hand  helmets,  and  some 

slightly  bent  pikes.  Despite  their  modest  origins  the 

Alcatani Fellowship has proven itself against Orc raiders 

in the wilds near Buccolia, and are earning a reputation 

for their effective and affordable phalanxes of pikemen.

Ricco’s Republican Guard
The Republican Guard were raised in Remas by merchants 

during the revolt that preceded the birth of the Republic. 

The regiment played a leading part in overthrowing the 

tyrannical Prince Mondo, parading his head around the 

city to the applause of the mob. 

LESSON LEARNED

Tilea, 1711 IC. From a hilltop surrounded by his Household 

Guard, Grand Count Maximilian III von Hochkirsche, Elector 

of Nuln, watched in grim silence as mercenaries hired by 

Miragliano routed his army. Wave after wave of his finest 

knights charged their phalanxes to no avail, dying by the score 

on the points of their pikes — his hopes of becoming Prince 

of Miragliano dying with them. Now his army was breaking, 

pursued by the advancing pikemen and harried by their cavalry. 

Sighing, he took quill and paper and began writing a note. 
Folding and sealing it, he handed it to a confused aide. ‘Here, 
take this to their Captain. It is the only thing left to do.’

‘Sir? We’re surrendering,’ asked the confused man.

‘No, you dolt,’ the Count shouted. ‘It’s a job 
offer! If you can’t beat them, buy them!’

49

IVDOGS OF WAR•

TILEA AND
TILEAN CHARACTERS 

•

TILEA, THE LAND 
AND HER PEOPLE

Though  the  small  towns  and  feudal  holdings  of  Tilea 

are important, when outsiders think of Tilea they think 

of  the  great  city-states  and  their  people:  dour  Luccini, 

home  of  Morr’s  cult;  Remas,  Tilea’s  one,  true  republic; 

Southwest of the Empire, over the Vaults lies Tilea, where 

Miragliano the Serene, owner of Tilea’s largest fleet and 

— according to Tileans, at least — civilization first arose 

ever-vigilant  over  the  Blighted  Marshes;  unconquered 

in the Old World. A narrow strip of fertile but rocky land 

Tobaro, built into the cliffs of the Abaskos; and Sartosa, 

runs north skirting the Appucinis from the ever-shifting 

freewheeling and deadly home of the Pirate Captains.

frontier  with  the  Border  Princes  and  circles  west  past 

Miragliano along the Irrana mountains to sink into the 

To  the  average  Imperial,  Tileans  are  shifty,  dishonest, 

dread Blighted Marshes, where the capital of the Skaven 

unreliable, and inclined toward criminality, but this portrait 

is said to lie. South from there the land grows so narrow 

is unjust. Tileans do value cleverness and cunning, for it 

as to almost vanish between the cliffs of the Abaskos and 

often saves Tilean lives. Regularly outnumbered, Tileans 

the Tilean Sea. Tileans have learned to get the most out 

look to Myrmidia’s teachings to win through manoeuvre, 

of  their  land:  growing  olives  and  exporting  oil;  raising 

strategy, and deception, risking a battle only when all the 

sheep  for  meat  and  wool;  citrus  fruits  and  wine  grapes 

factors favour them. But when the fight comes, they are 

that prosper in the warm sun; and fish  from  the Tilean 

as fierce as griffons. They have to be, surrounded as they 

Sea,  which  has  stocks  so  abundant  Tileans  claim  it  is 

are by enemies, Human and otherwise.

proof of Manann’s love for Myrmidia.

Perhaps  it  is  the  influence  of  the  ancient  Elven  ruins 

underlying  so  many  Tilean  cities,  but  the  people  value 

cleverness  in  their  daily  lives,  too.  Quick  thinking  and 

the  ability  to  argue  well  are  seen  as  virtues  that  let  the 

average Tilean rise as high as their abilities can take him, 

even to ship’s captain or merchant prince. Among urban 

Tileans,  Ranald  is  a  popular  god,  here  known  less  as  a 

god of thieves and more as the epitome of the dynamic 

individual who seizes any opportunity.

But Tilea has its perils, chief among them the wild pirates 

of Sartosa off the south coast. Whether raiding ships of 

all nations, or leading them to their doom on the rocks, 

Sartosans  see  everyone  else  as  their  prey.  Sometimes 

hired  by  one  party  to  raid  a  rival’s  commerce,  they  are 

quick  to  change  sides  if  the  temptation  presents  itself. 

Little wonder it is that Sartosa is rumoured to be a major 

centre of the cult of Stromfels, the shark-god that Tileans 

know as Stromfalo.

50

V51

VTILEA AND TILEAN CHARACTERSCITYTYPE OF GOVERNMENTCURRENT RULERLucinniA principality. Traditionally ruling princes claim descent from one of the city’s twin founders, Lucan and Luccina. Many civil wars have been fought between these two dynasties.Lorenzo Lupo, who claims descent from both Lucan and LuccinaMiraglianoA principality. Since the death of Prince Borgio his dowager, Dolchellata Belladonna, has ruled the city as regent, assisted by a council made up of the elders of several merchant families.Dowager Princess Dolchellata BelladonnaPavonaA principality. The current ruler is the much-widowed Lucrezzia Belladonna, who is rumoured to be a sorceress and poisoner.Dowager Princess Lucrezzia BelladonnaRemasA republic. Each of Remas’ most powerful merchant families is represented on the Council of Fifty, an assembly which debates issues and drafts legislation. Three members of the council are randomly selected each year to preside over it as a triumvirate.The Triumvirs, currently the powerful Alfeo Romeo, the increasingly tyrannical Marco Telli, and Imelda Mondo, a descendant of the last true prince of RemasSartosaPirate law applies, forbidding theft and executing murderers, theives, swindlers, and traitors. Each year the Pirate Captains currently in port hold an election to acknowledge one of their own as a supreme authority.‘The Pirate Princess’TobaroTobaro is a principality despite attempts at social revolution. Tobaro has no single ruling family, but rather a collection of semi-royal merchant houses from which the prince is chosen.Prince Tibaldus Marsarius di Vela, patriarch of the di Vela banking houseTrantioA principality. Since Marco Columbo defeated the corrupted republic that had overthrown Prince Orlando, the princes of the city have been expected to be master merchants as much as they have been expected to be regal.Merchant Prince Ettore RinaldoVerezzoA republic. The various merchant families are divided into factions distinguished by various voting colours (the Reds, the Greens, the Blues, and the Yellows). The current head of the Yellow faction is a merchant prince named Groccolo, though after the gold he had raised to pay a large force of mercenaries disappeared and the army mutinied. Despite his misfortunes the Yellows cling to power, but Bastino Batta of the Reds is growing increasingly popular amongst the merchant princes.The Yellows52

VUP IN ARMSTILEAN GAZETTEERSize: 1=Hamlet, 2=Village, 3=Town, 4=City. W = Wealth (see  Death on the Reik Companion, page 71).Garrison/Militia = A Garrison is made up of standing, professional soldiers, available at most times. A Militia is raised from the local populace, and available only seasonally.The letter after the number refers to quality. a - properly drilled, well trained and equipped soldiers. b - average troops, moderately trained and equipped. c - poorly equipped troops, possibly required to bring their own equipment which is generally of poor quality.Garrisons and Militia in Tilean settlements tend to be rather larger than their Empire equivalents, due to a tradition of each settlement being expected to look after itself and because it is wise to keep the land’s many mercenaries gainfully employed. Entries in ALL CAPS indicate a regional centre of political power, wielding significant influence over the settlements listed below it.SettlementSizeRulerPopWProducesGarrison/MilitiaNotesLUCCINI4Prince Lorenzo Lupo30,0004Trade, Government, Grain, Wool, Luxuries (Cheese)300a, 600b/300b, 1000cOldest city in TileaAnducci1Prince Lorenzo Lupo881Saltfish–/2b,8cDue to a historical grievance Elves are unwelcome herePattio2Prince Lorenzo Lupo2501Saltfish50b/75c– MIRAGLIANO4Dowager Princess Dolchellata Belladonna25,0004Trade, Luxuries (Pearls), Government, Saltfish550a, 1800b/900b, 3000cFamed for expert crossbowmen; Miragliano’s population declined due to strife following the death of Prince Borgio and the Yellow AgueAmato1Dolchellata Belladonna2601Trade50b/25cSite of many clean springsCampogrotta2Dolchellata Belladonna3502Grain, Wool50a/100bTilean end of the Alimento Tunnel; a small community of Dwarfs lives hereCammaro2Dolchellata Belladonna0–––Population vanished in 2511Etobrutti1Dolchellata Belladonna2751Grain50b/52c –Mironia1Dolchellata Belladonna0–––Population vanished in 2510Parmis2Dolchellata Belladonna0–––Population vanished in 2512Ravola3Dolchellata Belladonna9.5003Wine30b/300cFinest vineyards in Tilea53

VTILEA AND TILEAN CHARACTERSSettlementSizeRulerPopWProducesGarrison/MilitiaNotesToscania2Dolchellata Belladonna3651Metal50b/135cA Dwarf trading post has been established hereUdolpho1Melmoth Udolpho1002Subsistence–/5aReviled as a haunted estateZeluco2Duce Montoni di Zeluco5004Government300b/–A fortress with labyrinthine dungeonsMONTE CASTELLO2Castellan Lorenzo di Galeazzo5004Government100a, 400b/–Fortress, troops supplied from all major citiesPAVONA4Dowager Princess Lucrezzia Belladonna35,0004Trade, Government, Olives250a, 700b/200b, 1500c –Bucollia2Lucrezzia Belladonna4672Wine50a/100b –Lambrusco3Revenant Captain Ennio Mordini256––250a/–A heavily fortified court of the undeadOrganza3Lucrezzia Belladonna6,5003Wine, Wool20a, 60b/350c –REMAS4The Triumvirs40,0004Trade, Government, Saltfish350a, 750b/350b, 1000c –Alcatani1The Triumvirs821Citrus Fruit, Olives–/60cDue to a historical grievance Trantines are unwelcomeCatrazza3The Triumvirs14,0003Grain, Olives50b/200c –Ciarascura3The Triumvirs4454Government300b/–An old bent tower commanded by the tyrannical Castellan DellectaMotta Zorella2The Triumvirs3302Grain, Wool40a/80b– Monte Negro3Grand Commander Bassiano Dutra4503Government40a, 250b/–An institution dedicated to the Morrite Fellowship of the ShroudScintio2The Triumvirs3502Grain, Luxuries (Cheese)45a/120b –Vennia2The Triumvirs841Saltfish2b/8c– Zorasta3The Triumvirs6,2503Grain, Saltfish, Trade, Wool35a, 75b/300cA port town famed for its sea defencesSARTOSA3The Pirate Princess15,5003Trade (of a sort)550b, 1600c/–Lawless and anarchic lair of piratesNew Trade Goods
If  using  the  trading  rules  in  Death  on  the  Reik 

Companion, the base prices for new types of trade goods 

are  given  here.  When  checking  for  availability  Citrus 

Fruit,  Olives  and  Saltfish  can  be  substituted  for  Grain, 

and Stone may be substituted for Metal.

54

VUP IN ARMSSettlementSizeRulerPopWProducesGarrison/MilitiaNotesTOBARO4Prince Tibaldus Marsarius de Vela35,0004Grain, Stone, Luxuries (Silver, Gemstones, Pink Marble), Trade, Saltfish350a, 500b/400b, 800cCut off from land by the Abasko Mountains and made nearly unreachable from the sea by Fool’s RocksCera-Scuro1Tibaldus Marsarius de Vela751Saltfish10b/75cPreviously a lair of pirates in the Siren Isles, recently conquered by TobaroVedenza3The Council of Tears10,5003Stone, Olives200b/500cA small republic on the border with Estalia recently reconquered from Estalian overlordshipTRANTIO4Merchant Prince Ettore Rinaldo27,5004Trade, Government250a, 400b/300b, 900c– Ducieso3Prince Frenzo Badolphus12,5003Stone, Olives250b/600cPrince Frenzo is a gifted AstromancerTerramorta1Ettore Rinaldo931Grain10b/60c– Torrico2Ettore Rinaldo802Olives–/2b,8cPopulation recovering from recent Hobgoblin raidsVarenna2Ettore Rinaldo3902Grain, Wool45a/85b– Viccia1Ettore Rinaldo1831Grain, Wool35b/50c– VEREZZO4Groccolo for the Yellows36,0004Trade, Government, Grain250a, 550b/400b, 1200c –Ciabbatta2Groccolo for the Yellows3941Grain20b/100b –Nonucci1Groccolo for the Yellows2601Subsistence30b/–Penal Colony in the Tilean SeaRiccotta2Groccolo for the Yellows4101Grain15b/100c –Veddia1Groccolo for the Yellows2951Citrus Fruit25b/62c –BASE PRICE TABLE Citrus FruitOlivesSaltfishStoneSpring3 GC3 GC.5 GC5 GCSummer1 GC2 GC.5 GC5 GCAutumn.5 GC2 GC.5 GC5 GCWinter1 GC3 GC1 GC5 GCTILEAN MERCENARIES 
IN THE EMPIRE

CREATING TILEAN 
CHARACTERS

Tilean mercenaries have served in the Empire since the 

To create Human Tilean Characters, follow the process 

Age of Wars, when the incessant civil strife of that time 

in  WFRP:  Chapter  2,  but  use  the  following  entries 

provided constant employment. At a time when even the 

for  Skills  and Talents.  Choose  three  Skills  to  receive  5 

Grand  Provinces  were  breaking  down,  only  the  Elector 

Advances  each,  and  three  different  Skills  to  receive  3 

Counts and the most powerful nobles under them could 

Advances each. 

afford the gold necessary to hire truly professional troops. 

They were capable of sweeping aside rebel militia or the 

retainers  of  robber  barons  with  dreams  of  glory,  as  well 

as protect them from the mercenaries of other Electors. 

The largest free cities and towns got in on the act, hiring 

their own mercenaries to support their favoured factions, 

or their neutrality.

Tilean  mercenaries  are  less  common  in  the  Empire’s 

IMPERIAL TILEANS
The rules given here reflect Tilean Characters born in Tilea. For 

Tilean Characters born in the Empire, use the rules given in 
WFRP page 36, but replace the option of Language (Wasteland) 
with Language (Tilean) in the skills list.

north and east, where the precepts of Myrmidia are less 

Skills: Charm, Cool, Evaluate, Gossip, Haggle, Language 

widespread  and  many  of  Ulric’s  followers  regard  ‘effete’ 

(Arabyan),  Language  (Reikspiel),  Language  (Estalian), 

Myrmidians  with  disdain.  In  the  western  and  southern 

Lore (Tilea), Melee (Basic), Ranged (Crossbow), Sail

Grand Provinces, however, some have been employed for 

so long that they are effectively units of the State Army. 

Talents:  Argumentative  or  Fisherman,  Coolheaded  or 

In  Nuln,  the  Blue  Herons  of  Miragliano  have  served 

Suave, 3 Random Talents

as  the  Royal  Horse  Guard  since  the  time  of  the  Grand 

Countess’s  great-grandfather.  Though  they  recruit  in 

Characters from Luccini may at their option replace one 

Miragliano, all their work is for Nuln.

of  their  starting Talents  with  Doomed  (see  Dooming in 

Tilea). Dwarf, Elf, and Halfling Characters use the rules 

During  the  Turmoil  that  racked  the  Empire  in  recent 

as written in WFRP: Chapter 2.

times  many  Tilean  mercenary  captains  travelled  across 

the Vaults and sought employment. The famed Leopard 

Company  fought  for  Emmanuelle  von  Liebwitz  in  her 

campaign  to  annex  the  province  of  Sudenland,  and  the 

Birdmen  of  Catrazza  were  hired  to  scout  for  the  forces 

of Talabecland.

When  not  on  the  battlefield,  Tilean  mercenaries  often 

double as a city’s elite security force, guarding dignitaries 

and public buildings. Others, however, lacking long-term 

contracts and running short of money, turn to banditry, 

preying  on  travellers  and  towns  unable  or  unwilling  to 

buy them off.

55

VTILEA AND TILEAN CHARACTERSDOOMING IN TILEA
Dooming is an Imperial custom, not performed in Tilea except 

in one region: the city of Luccini, home to the Cult of Morr, 

and  its  environs.  Scholars  believe  that  Luccinan  mercenaries 

returning from Reikland brought the practice with them, many 

having married Reiklander spouses. Now children on reaching 

their tenth birthday are often taken by their parents to the Great 
Mausoleum in Luccini, where the Veggenti, a female order of 
Mystics dedicated to Morr, cryptically pronounce their fates.

CaReeRs
When generating a career for a Tilean Character, use the 

tiLean names
Female Forenames

Agnese,  Agnola,  Altapasqua,  Amellina,  Antonia, 

Belcolore, Bianca, Cherubina,Cicilia, Corelia, Ermellina, 

Flaminea,  Flora,  Foscarina,  Francesca,  Ghisolabella, 

Julietta,  Junipera,  Liona,  Lucretia,  Mathilda,  Mira, 

Olympia,  Pantasilea,  Pia,  Pomellina,  Rigarda,  Smeralda, 

Sofia, Vannozza, Vermilia, Veronica, Zebaina

Male Forenames

Ambrogio,  Antonius,  Balsamo,  Bartolommeo,  Bonanno, 

Brancaleone,  Ettore,  Franchino,  Galasso,  Grifo, 

Guglielmo, 

Jacobello,  Lenuzo,  Luchinus,  Marino, 

Melmoth,  Mercuzio,  Montoni,  Oliverotto,  Paganinus, 

Random Class and Career Table from page 30–31 of the 

Pantaleo,  Pintaldi,  Ravaglioli,  Rinaldo,  Saraceno, 

WFRP Core Rulebook, but with the following changes.

Scarletto, Schedoni, Smarra, Torchitorio, Vatheck, Ysidro, 

0

0

0

0

A  Flagellant  is  not  likely  to  come  from,  or  go  to, 

Tilea.  A  player  generating  a  Flagellant  Character 

Surnames

Zenobio, Zschokke

may  choose  either  a  Nun  or  Priest  dedicated  to 

Acciaioli,  Acerbi,  Albano,  Alberti,  d’Amoto,  Barbacia, 

Myrmidia, Morr, Verena, Shallya or Ranald.

Barbigia,  Barbolini,  Bellegno,  Bianco,  Boccole,  Calbo, 

A Cavalryman may choose to be a Light Cavalryman.

Calcagnini,  Calvis,  Capello,  Corbo,  Fabbro,  Figino, 

A Soldier may choose to be a Pikeman.

Filago, Filiarchi, Fiolo, Firavanti, Foscari, Fulci, Guerra, 

A Warrior Priest may choose to be a Warrior Priest 

Malatesta,  Marsillach,  Molino,  Pentangeli,  Rosso, 

of Myrmidia.

Udolpho, Vitelli, Zeluco

56

VUP IN ARMS 
 
 
 
TILEA TIMELINE

The history of the quarrelsome city states of Tilea is recorded in several chronicles compiled over the centuries. Such are the ancient feuds and 

rivalries between cities that these chronicles frequently contradict each other, both sides claiming victory in the same battle. When a tyrannical 

prince was overthrown and a republic declared in his place, and when an ambitious warlord seized power and made himself prince of a city, the 

chronicles were artfully revised in favour of the new regime. For these reasons, Tilean history is a complicated and confusing subject. All dates 

are given in the Sigmarite calendar of the Empire, as is usual amongst Old World historians.

Circa –1780 IC
Tilean legends give this date for the destruction 

of  the  ancient  city  of  Tylos  in  the  Blighted 

Marshes.

The Tilean Classical Age

1 IC
Lucan  and  Luccina  found  Luccini  among 

491–978 IC
Tileans  gradually  drive  the  Orcs  from  the 

lands  of  Tilea,  though  some  tribes  remain 

within the depths of the Apuccini mountains. 

Circa –1500 IC
The Elves abandon their colonies around the 

the ruins of an ancient Elf city. True to the 

The fortress of Monte Castello is erected to 

leopard’s  warning,  the  descendants  of  Lucan 

the  south  of  the  Apuccinis  to  stand  guard 

often struggle with the descendants of Luccina 

against future invasions.

Tilean Sea and return to Ulthuan.

for  control  of  Luccini.  In  the  following 

The Archaic Age

centuries,  Remas,  Sartosa,  and  Tobaro  also 

arise on the ruins of former Elf colonies.

1017 IC
Norse  Raiders  establish  a  stronghold  on 

Sartosa.  They  ravage  the  Tilean  coast  until 

Circa –700 IC
Elf seafarers report Tilean shepherds grazing 

20–60 IC
According  to  certain  schools  of  Myrmidian 

defeated at the battle of Cappo Cinno. The 

surviving  Norse  are  employed  by  Luccini  to 

their flocks amid the tumbled colonnades of 

thought,  the  warrior  goddess  manifests  as  a 

guard the island.

former Elf cities.

mortal woman. After suffering great hardships, 

she rises to the head of a force that sweeps 

Era of the Araby Wars

Circa –25 IC
According  to  legend,  the  twins  Lucan  and 

across  Tilea  and  Estalia  and  forges  a  great 

southern  empire.  Theologians  and  scholars 

Luccina  become  lost  in  the  wilderness  and 

of  history  vigorously  debate  the  details  and 

take refuge in a cave on a great rock. There 

factuality of these claims.

they are guarded by a monstrous leopard with 

1240 IC
Sartosa is invaded by corsairs from the coasts 

of  Araby.  The  corsairs  remain  a  menace  in 

the Tilean Sea for the next two hundred and 

two  heads  and  three  tails.  Shepherds  come 

across the cave, surrounded by the bones of 

451 IC
The shores of the Tilean Sea are ravaged by 

fifty years.

Orcs, wolves and Trolls, and are confronted 

the combined fleets of the Tomb King Settra 

by the leopard. From one head, the leopard 

and the Dark Elves. Sartosa is destroyed.

prophesies that the twins will establish a great 

city  —  but  the  other  head  offers  a  warning: 

Tilean Dark Ages

there  shall  be  strife  between  the  twins’ 

descendants.

475 IC
A  massive  Orc  horde  invades  Tilea.  Many 

1366 IC
Tilean mercenaries fight on both sides in the 

civil wars that ravage the Empire.

1382–1420 IC
A series of indecisive conflicts arises between 

Bretonnian barons and mercenaries in the pay 

cities are sacked. Tileans discover the value of 

of the Prince of Miragliano. The skirmishes 

hiring  soldiers  when  they  convince  portions 

take  place  in  the  foothills  of  the  Iranna 

of the Orc army to defect and turn on their 

Mountains,  near  the  small  town  of  Ravola 

former masters for payment.

which is famed for its vineyards.

57

VTILEA AND TILEAN CHARACTERS1425 IC
The Prince of Miragliano arranges a conference 

1501 IC
Sartosa is recaptured from corsairs of Araby by 

1722 IC
The  plague  fleet  of  the  Chaos  Champion 

to put a stop to the feuding between Tilean 

the mercenary army of Luciano Catena, Prince 

Erghal Bloodhard besieges the Tilean town of 

landowners  and  Bretonnian  barons.  The 

of Luccini. Surviving corsairs are allowed to 

Zorastra, but is kept at bay by the excellent 

Bretonnian  Baron  du  Bors  challenges  the 

stay and serve Luciano as mercenaries in his 

sea defences protecting the port. Inspired by 

Tilean  venator  Etto  ‘The  Fierce’  to  a  joust. 

fleet.  The  island  becomes  a  principality  of 

Nurgle, the fleet’s shamans feed plague-ridden 

The  resulting  Tournament  of  Ravola  sees 

Luccini and home of their fleet.

meat  to  seabirds  that  nest  in  the  city,  and 

the  flower  of  Bretonnian  chivalry  soundly 

beaten by Tilean knights and ends Bretonnian 

pretensions to domains in Tilea.

1563 IC
Skaven forces attack the city of Tobaro from 

soon Zorastra suffers an outbreak of disease. 

Refugees fleeing the city undo the chain gates 

that kept the reavers at bay, and Zorastra is 

below in a series of raids, razing large parts of 

sacked by the followers of Chaos.

1448 IC
Tilean  mercenaries  take  part  in  wars  to  free 

the city. After the attack it is discovered that 

much of civilian populace have been spirited 

Estalia from the Sultan of Araby. The Sultan 

away, never to be seen again.

1757 IC
In  Sartosa,  rebellions  against  the  Prince  of 

Luccini grow increasingly frequent. He finally 

sends  several  fleets  to  besiege  the  city  of 

Tobaro, but each one is repulsed.

1487 IC
Unseasonal  mists  descend  on  Remas  and 

1565 IC
Tobaro is saved by the arrival of the merchant 

loses control of the island when the crews of 

a  flotilla  of  mercenary  galleys  mutiny.  The 

prince  Meldo  Marcelli  at  the  head  of  a 

island rapidly falls into anarchy and becomes 

mercenary army reinforced by Sea Elf allies. 

a pirate lair.

result in their fleet of galleys having to remain 

Meldo Marcelli is summarily elected as prince 

at sea. A Dark Elf raiding fleet penetrates the 

of the city and his family remain the rulers of 

harbour. They are beaten back at the Battle of 

Tobaro for many years after.

the Bridge, but not before they have inflicted 

great damage on the city and absconded with 

many captives.

1601 IC
The village of Escantos in Southern Tilea is 

1812 IC
The  Red  Pox  ravages  northern  Tilea.  In 

Miragliano,  nearly  one  in  three  citizens  is 

laid low by the disease. Large rats are blamed 

for spreading the pox, and Miragliano begins 

Age Of Exploration

completely devoured by swarms of rats.

to employ a standing force of Rat Catchers 

among their mercenary troops. 

1492 IC
Marco Colombo becomes the first Tilean to 

1681 IC
The  Night  of  the  Living  Dead.  Throughout 

Tilea, the dead stir and walk the land. Entire 

1877 IC
In  Tobaro,  the  rule  of  the  Marcellis  comes 

visit Lustria and survive to tell the tale. On 

towns  and  villages  are  destroyed  by  the 

to an end when a secession squabble erupts 

his  return  with  a  great  fortune  in  gold  and 

shambling forces of the undead. The cult of 

following the death of Antonio Marcelli III. 

gems,  he  takes  command  of  the  mercenary 

Morr  is  well  established  in  Tilea,  and  their 

Civil  war  is  averted  when  the  court  seer 

army of Orlando, the exiled Prince of Trantio. 

priests help to ensure that the skeletal hordes 

prophesies that the next prince is doomed to 

Marco  captures  the  city  of  Trantio  and 

do not overrun Tilea’s cities.

meet  an  unpleasant  fate.  Suddenly,  no  one 

becomes its merchant prince. Trantio goes on 

to enjoy many years of prosperity in trade and 

supremacy in warfare.

1699 IC
Tilean merchants Ricco and Robbio trek east 

across the Silk Road, hoping to discover an 

eastern route to Ulthuan. They are received at 

wants the post. To ward off the prophecy, a 

pig is made Prince of Tobaro.

1890 IC
Piggolo I of Tobaro dies when he falls over 

the court of the Dragon Emperor of Cathay 

the  cliff  edge  and  into  the  sea  during  an 

and trade begins to flow along the Silk Road 

inspection  of  his  guard.  Rumours  abound 

from the Old World to the Celestial Empire.

of  an  assassination  and  several  courtiers  are 

arrested on suspicion of treason.

58

VUP IN ARMS1948 IC 
The Year of the Four Tyrannies of Tilea.

2243 IC
The pirate captain known as the Black Cygnet 

2379 IC
A band of Dark Elf corsairs are shipwrecked 

returns from plundering shipping lanes to the 

near Sartosa. They steal several ships including 

New  World.  He  uses  his  ill-gotten  gains  to 

the flagship of the pirate lord Ernezio Porcurio. 

establish  the  estate  of  Udolpho.  Rumours 

The Elves hire a crew of pirate sellswords and 

begin to circulate that it is a site of dark and 

raid the coasts near Remas and Luccini. They 

experimental sorcery.

2283 IC
Smarra  Udolpho  invites  the  household  of 

Isabelle Di Lambrusco to visit the Udolpho 

estate  to  celebrate  their  impending  nuptials. 

are betrayed by the mercenaries and become 

the captives of the pirate captains from whom 

they stole the ships.

2401 IC
At the siege of Monte Castello, five hundred 

Era of Enlightenment

2000 IC
A  new  age  of  art,  culture,  and  prosperity 

Isabelle’s jealous brother murders her on the 

mercenaries  hold  out  against  ten  thousand 

eve of the wedding. She returns from the grave 

Orcs. The troops are inspired by the example 

flourishes.  In  Miragliano,  a  city  that  had 

to haunt the estate as the Spectre Bride.

of the formidable Mana-Lisi, daughter of their 

developed  in  a  rambling  way  over  many 

general. Upon her father’s death she donned 

centuries,  a  bold  redevelopment  plan  is 

implemented by Prince Cosimo. He employs 

2302–2320 IC
Many small towns near the Blighted Marshes 

his  armour  and  vowed  to  fight  the  Orcs  to 

the  last,  preventing  them  from  scrawling  on 

Leonardo di Miragliano to redesign the city’s 

are razed or disappear altogether.

the Castello’s magnificent frescos.

streets  and  plazas.  Leonardo  builds  many 

towers that list in the marshy ground. Rather 

than being regarded as a liability, the towers 

2321 IC
Flotillas  of  strange  ramshackle  craft  are 

2406 IC
The  mercenary  general  Ennio  Mordini  is 

spark a fashion of leaning structures that goes 

spotted  in  the  Tilean  sea  near  Tobaro,  but 

employed  by  Duke  Fabriano  of  Lumbrusco 

on to characterise many of Tilea’s cities.

they are never identified.

2012 IC
Leonardo di Miragliano travels to the Empire 

2321–99 IC
Tilea is gripped by recurrent famines caused 

to  work  on  the  fresco  in  Wurtbad’s  temple 

by plagues of mice eating the grain. In Remas 

to make war on his neighbour, the Duke of 

Organza.  Ennio  performs  competently.  In 

fact,  he  is  so  competent  that  he  begins  to 

make his employer increasingly nervous.

of  Myrmidia.  He  later  enters  the  service  of 

a  group  of  merchants  sponsor  the  raising 

Stefan Franz, Prince of Altdorf, and sets up 

of  a  regiment  called  the  Republican  Guard. 

2411 IC
The Duke of Organza offers to make peace 

the institution that will go on to become the 

They  slay  the  tyrannical  merchant  prince 

with  Duke  Fabriano  and  in  secret  meetings 

Imperial School of Engineers.

Omilo  Mondo  and  parade  his  decapitated 

the two dukes agree that Ennio Mordini must 

2192 IC
Duke  Alfonzo  of  Miragliano  leads  a 

families of Remas form a council of fifty from 

attack  Organza  via  a  mountain  pass,  and 

whom a ruling triumvirate is chosen to govern 

Ennio  walks  into  an  ambush  and  is  slain 

head around the city on a pike. The merchant 

be killed. Duke Fabriano orders Mordini to 

mercenary  army  into  the  Zombie  Swamps 

the city. The Prince of Verezzo greedily hoards 

along with his men.

and drives a large force of Skaven back into 

grain and sells it to his citizens at extortionate 

the Blighted Marshes.

prices. He is also toppled from power and a 

republic is proclaimed. The system in Verezzo 

2416 IC
An  army  of  skeletons  flying  the  tattered 

2236 IC
Grottio  paints  2000  naked  nymphs  on  the 

is more democratic than that of Remas; the 

banner  of  Ennio  Mordini  march  from  the 

merchant  families  are  divided  into  factions 

Appucini  mountains.  They  lay  siege  to  the 

ceiling  of  the  Palazzo  Verezzo  instead  of  a 

distinguished by voting colours: reds, greens, 

city of Lambrusco, overrun it, and fortify it.

battle  scene.  He  is  exiled  to  the  island  of 

blues, and yellows.

Nocucci as punishment.

59

VTILEA AND TILEAN CHARACTERS2418 IC
Otranto Udolpho, a maverick sorcerer, tries 

2495 IC
At  the  battle  of  Via  Veddia,  Borgio  the 

2505 IC
Leopold di Lucano, who claims descent from 

to  conquer  the  Udolpho  estate  at  the  head 

Besieger  defeats  a  mercenary  army  from  the 

Lucan, and Lorenzo Lupo, who claims descent 

of an army consisting of undead troops and 

Republic of Verezzo.

a  regiment  of  Daemonettes.  In  Luccini  the 

corpse of Ernezio Porcurio is found inside a 

windowless  basement  beneath  his  castle,  the 

2497 IC
Prince Donato of Pavona brokers an alliance 

from both Lucan and Luccina, vie for control 

of  Luccini.  Priests  at  the  Temple  of  Lucan 

and Luccina support Leopold but switch sides 

after receiving a vision foretelling victory for 

cellar is locked from the inside. No trace of 

with  Trantio  but  perishes  after  consuming  a 

Lorenzo.  The  temple  guard,  who  are  loyal 

the killer can be found.

meal  of  poisonous  mushrooms.  His  widow, 

to  Leopold,  throw  the  priests  into  the  sea. 

2430 IC
Melmoth Udolpho sells his soul to Slaanesh 

Lucretia Belladonna, soon remarries, choosing 

Lorenzo holds most of the city — but Leopold 

the dashing captain Ranuccio for her husband. 

holds  the  acropolis.  Lorenzo  offers  Leopold 

At  the  battle  of  Vittoria  Viccia,  Borgio  the 

amnesty  if  he  and  the  temple  guard  leave 

in return for a promise that he would never 

Besieger  defeats  a  mercenary  army  from  the 

Luccini and promise never to return. Leopold 

be bored again.

Principality  of  Trantio,  assisted  by  the  last-

considers  the  offer,  loots  the  acropolis,  and 

minute  betrayal  of  the  mercenaries  from 

departs. Lorenzo becomes Prince of Luccini.

2442 IC
The  Miraglianese  sculptor  Angelo  Fittorini 

Pavona who attack their Trantine allies in the 

rear.  Miragliano  is  established  as  the  most 

becomes renowned for his beautiful depictions 

powerful principality in Tilea.

of the gods and goddesses of the Old World.

2485 IC
Borgio makes himself Prince of Miragliano. 

He  executes  so  many  of  his  enemies  by 

hanging  them  from  Miragliano’s  leaning 

towers that the buildings are said to lean more 

during his reign than at any other time.

2488 IC
Prince Luigi of Pavona is assassinated, leaving 

his beautiful young wife, Lucretia Belladonna, 

dowager of the principality.

2489 IC
At  the  battle  of  Villa  Vennia,  Borgio  the 

2506 IC
Ysidro  d’Amato,  styling  himself  ‘The  Water 

Wizard’, becomes one of the richest merchants 

in  Miragliano  after  monopolising  the  city’s 

supplies of potable water. 

2507 IC
Miragliano is beset by a virulent outbreak of 

the Yellow Ague, which is traced back to the 

water sold by d’Amato. Calls for his arrest are 

made but he flees the city and vanishes.

2509 IC
After  several  defeats  and  humiliations,  the 

benighted  regiment  formed  by  Leopold  di 

2503 IC
Borgio the Besieger is murdered in his bath 

Lucano  and  the  temple  guard  from  Luccini 

decide to send a generous portion of all their 

with  a  toasting  fork.  Street  fighting  breaks 

earnings  back  to  the  temple  of  Lucan  and 

Besieger  defeats  a  mercenary  army  from  the 

out in Miragliano as various factions vie for 

Luccina. Upon doing so their fortunes change 

Republic of Remas. 

power, and Borgio’s excellent mercenary army 

and  they  win  the  first  of  many  victories. 

2494 IC
Pavona is defeated by a mercenary army from 

fragments as captains lead their regiments away 

Leopold is renamed ‘Leopold di Lucci’ by his 

from the city in the hope of new employment. 

troops, the Leopard Company.

Braganza’s Besiegers, Vespero’s Vendetta, and 

the  Principality  of  Verezzo.  Prince  Borso  is 

Bronzino’s Galloper Guns are just a few of 

wounded in the battle but swears by the healing 

these regiments of renown.

arts of his new wife, Lucretia Belladonna. He 

dies a few days later.

2513 IC
Poggio, Prince of Pavona and seventh husband 

of Lucretia Belladonna, dies after consuming 

three bottles of dubious quality wine.

60

VUP IN ARMS•

THE CULT OF MYRMIDIA

•

In  the  sun-kissed  regions  of  Tilea  and  Estalia,  a 

traveller  cannot  fail  to  notice  evidence  of  the  worship 

of the Goddess of War, Myrmidia. With conflict always 

the myRmidian faith
Seat  of  Power:  The  Archecclesiastium,  the  chief 

looming, it is natural that people seek spiritual guidance 

temple in Magritta

and blessings in the art of war. 

A FAITH IN WAR

Head of the Cult: La Aguila Ultima Isabella Giovanna 

Luccelli 

Primary Orders: Order of the Blazing Sun, Order of 

the Eagle, Order of the Righteous Spear

Myrmidia provides comfort to the soldier on the eve of 

Major Festivals: No fixed holy days, but celebrations 

battle, but also invokes strength in the townsperson who 

to  Myrmidia  are  held  at  the  beginning  and  end  of 

must  traverse  the  dark  alleyway,  clutching  their  dagger 

campaigns  and  it  is  common  practice  to  sacrifice  to 

nervously. She inspires courage to the peasant embattled 

her before and after a battle

by inhuman raiders from the wilderness. At some point in 

Popular  Holy  Books:  Bellona  Myrmidia,  Bellum 

their lives, many Old Worlders will have invoked the aid 

Strategia, The Book of War

of Myrmidia at a critical juncture, when a violent death 

Holy Symbols: A spear behind a shield, an eagle

seems certain, or when loved ones are called to war. 

61

VIStatues  of  the  goddess  portray  her  as  a  woman  in  the 

Furthermore,  there  is  a  fierce  controversy  within  the 

prime of youth, standing tall, head held high, clad in the 

cult  as  to  whether  Myrmidia  is  a Tilean  goddess  or  an 

traditional  panoply  of  classical  Remas,  a  plumed  helm 

Estalian  one. This  debate  stokes  great  division  between 

and muscled cuirass of bronze. She leans on a spear, and 

the  Great  Temple  of  the  goddess  in  Remas  and  the 

bears a shield emblazoned with an eagle — symbol of her 

Archecclesiastium, high temple of Myrmidia in Estalia. 

keen insight and broad view in battle. A lion often rests at 

her feet, showing how she can subdue even the strongest 

foe with her feats of arms. 

the tiLean tRadition
Tilean folklore has it that all people of the Southern Old 

World  are  descendants  of  those  who  fled  the  disaster 

Myrmidia  does  not  favour  brute  force  or  mindless 

that  claimed  the  city  of  Tylos.  Indeed,  the  records  of 

bloodshed.  She  is  patron  of  the  art  and  science  of  war, 

both Elves and Dwarfs give credence to the notion that 

who recognises both the elegance of single-combat  and 

a  mighty  city  once  existed  in  the  area  now  swathed  by 

the sweeping vision of grand strategy. She rewards those 

the  Blighted  Marshes.  Rising  waters,  meteor  strikes, 

who  fight  their  wars  with  honour.  She  endorses  the 

and corruption from within are variously blamed for the 

pursuit  of  wisdom  in  warfare  and  inspires  commanders 

destruction of Tylos. Most scholars agree that it did exist 

with tactical brilliance on the battlefield, and individual 

but ceased to be around -1780 IC.

fighters with quick-witted swordplay. 

The Bellona Myrmidia, principal text of the Tilean arm of 

Myrmidia  is  also  the  patron  of  the  cunning  ruse  and 

the cult, claims that the ruler of the city was also named 

well-timed  ambush,  but  she  is  not  a  cruel  goddess. The 

Tylos,  and  that  he  made  a  covenant  with  a  goddess  of 

defeated enemy must be granted clemency if they submit 

Civilisation, Beauty, and Honour who helped him nurture 

and captured towns and cities must be spared the ravages 

his city to greatness. This goddess abandoned Tylos due 

of sacking. She grants victory to the honourable but is the 

to his pride and envy, and shortly afterwards the city was 

staunch  nemesis  of  hubristic  conquerors  who  visit  woe 

destroyed.  According  to  the  text,  this  goddess  was  an 

upon the vanquished.

incarnation of Myrmidia, and that during this time she 

foUndations of the CULt
Myrmidia  is  an  unusual  deity.  Most  of  the  gods  of  the 

was a pacifist like her sister, Shallya.

According  to  legend,  the  twins  Lucan  and  Luccina 

Old World pantheon arise during the time before Sigmar, 

founded Luccini among the ruins of an ancient Elf city 

when records were unreliable and the deeds of the gods 

in  1  IC,  and  other Tilean  cities  were  established  in  the 

and  formation  of  their  cults  a  matter  of  much  dispute. 

centuries that followed. The Bellona Myrmidia has it that 

Even  the  most  devout  Ulrican  might  consider  many 

the  first  recorded  site  of  Myrmidian  worship  is  Remas, 

stories  associated  with  him  to  be  parables  or  legends 

where  they  claim  she  was  born  as  a  mortal.  Remans 

rather  than  historical  realities.  Then  there  is  Sigmar 

stubbornly insist that the goddess’ place of birth was their 

himself,  whose  earthly  deeds  are  considered  fact  and 

city, and for proof point to the sacred Omphalos on display 

whose apotheosis is granted by most Old Worlders.

above the high altar of the colossal Reman temple — a 

huge egg-shaped stone, cleft in two, crystalline within its 

The  foundation  of  Myrmidia’s  cult,  on  the  other  hand, 

centre.  It  was  from  this  stone  that  legend  purports  the 

has parallels with both that of Sigmar and those of the 

infant Myrmidia crawled, to be found and adopted by a 

other gods, being a confusing mix of historical fact and 

pair of humble goat herders.

legendary  origins. To  add  to  the  confusion,  each  of  the 

main holy texts of the Myrmidian cult, The Book of War, 

Bellona  Myrmidia  teaches  that  Myrmidia  learned  hard 

Bellona Myrmidia, and Bellum Strategia all give different 

lessons in her early years, forced to live with an uncaring 

accounts of her origins and place varying emphasis on the 

aunt  and  uncle  after  the  death  of  her  adoptive  parents. 

importance of her story. 

62

VIUP IN ARMSThis  heartless  couple  worked  Myrmidia  hard,  and  then 

According  to  the  Bellona  Myrmidia,  during  this  time 

sold  her  into  the  service  of  a  cruel  local  duca.  This 

Myrmidia was entranced by an Estalian nobleman named 

duca  was  an  unkind  master,  and  after  suffering  many 

Ottokar,  and  that  through  her  affection  and  favour  he 

indignities Myrmidia took down a ceremonial spear from 

came  to  rule  Magritta. While  she  was  on  campaign,  he 

his collection and ran him through. 

revealed  himself  a  cruel  tyrant  and,  fearing  retribution 

upon her return, arranged for her assassination. 

Driven  by  her  experiences,  Myrmidia  abandoned  her 

pacifist  ways  and  declared  herself  a  champion  in  the 

Myrmidia was laid low by a poisoned dart, but Ottokar 

cause of ridding the world of injustice. Many great heroes 

suffered for his wickedness. It was said that he was cursed 

joined her cause and forged a great southern empire that 

by Shallya, Verena, and Morr to be stripped of his health 

stretched across Tilea, Estalia, and much of what is now 

and his wits, and never to receive the mercy of death.

the Border Princes and southern Bretonnia.

63

VITHE CULT OF MYRMIDIAKEY DIFFERENCES BETWEEN MYRMIDIAN THEOLOGY ACCORDING TO TILEANS AND ESTALIANSIssueTileansEstaliansCentre of cult authorityL’Ultima Aquila Isabella Giovanna Luccelli is the head of the cult, and ought to move its centre to the High Temple in RemasLa Aguila Ultima Isabella Giovanna Luccelli is the High Priestess at The Archecclesiastium, the chief temple in MagrittaLegitimacy of Bellona MyrmidiaLiteral truth of Myrmidia’s life and achievementsA collection of folklore and fairy tales, of spiritual importance but not historical factLegitimacy of Bellum StrategiaApocryphal ramblings that may inspire the faithful but hold no true veracityThe holy revelation of Myrmidia’s manifestation as a goddess incarnate in MagrittaLegitimacy of The Book of WarAn important work in understanding the precepts a good Myrmidian ought to abide by, and an account of twelve battles fought under the generalship of Myrmidia An important work in understanding the precepts a good Myrmidian ought to abide by, and an account of twelve battles fought under the guidance of generals inspired by Myrmidian principlesMyrmidia was previously a goddess of Civilisation and companion to TylosCommonly understood to be fact, or at least a respected legendDismissed as a Tilean mythBelief that a Myrmidian classical age…began in Remas, led by Myrmidia herself, and conquered Estaliabegan in Magritta, was either led by Myrmidia herself or those who were inspired by her, and conquered TileaEnjoy the favour of…the Order of the Eaglethe Order of the Blazing SunBelief that Myrmidia spent time as a mortal…is hugely important and proper to all true Myrmidiansis optional and of secondary importance to understanding what she representsthe estaLian tRadition
Magrittans  fiercely  differ  with  the  theology  taught  in 

The Remans mock the text as apocryphal. They claim that 

a simple explanation lies behind the indentations on the 

Remas. They decry the Reman account as mere fable — 

rock, that centuries of rainwater dripping from the leaky 

are not the sly Tileans renowned for their trickery? Was 

roof of the Archecclesiastium is their actual cause. 

not  Myrmidia  born  of  the  union  of  Morr  and  Verena, 

daughter of death and justice? They attest to the primacy 

This schism is no mere clash of words between venerable 

of  the  priests  of  the  Archecclesiastium  and  teach  that 

archivists. Over the centuries, the argument over primacy 

their authority is warranted by Bellum Strategia, a brittle 

has escalated to the clash of arms. Duels have been fought 

yellowed  text  kept  under  lock  and  key  in  their  temple’s 

between champions of each temple, and even armies have 

library. These assert that it was in Magritta that Myrmidia 

been raised to settle the matter. Some histories maintain 

first stepped from the heavens, alighting on the same rock 

that the collapse of the Reman empire in the distant past 

upon which the Archecclesiastium is built. In the bowels 

was caused by the revolt of the Estalians against Tilean 

of the temple an imprint of her footprint can be seen on 

rule, fuelled by this rivalry. 

that sacred rock. 

Extract  from  the  Bellona  Myrmidia  (Reman  edition),  sacred 
book of the followers of the Goddess of War, translated by 

Professor Heinrich Grüberhaus of the University of Altdorf

‘And Tylos came to be recognised chief of the wandering Kavzar 

and sought to found a city for his folk. And he made covenant 

with  Myrmidia  to  erect  its  walls,  and  so  it  was  deftly  done. 

Yet Tylos was unsatisfied, for the cities of the Elvenkind were 

greater, and so he bid his tribe to raise a white tower to the 

heavens.  But  Myrmidia  scorned  his  pride  and  abandoned  the 

city, and it fell to rapacious vermin, and therein foetid ground 

now lies, neglected and abused. And Elf and Dwarf fought, and 

the Elves departed, sailing their shining ships to the West, and 

the  Dwarfs’  Everlasting  Realm  was  brought  low  through  the 

wickedness of Goblins, and Mankind filled the void and they 

did prosper and spread their seed. And Myrmidia took pity on 

the scattered tribe of Tylos, and walked among them as a mortal 

woman,  and  took  up  her  Spear  of  Righteousness  and  Shield 

of Honour and slew the enemies of Men in their thousands. 

War was won with fire-forged metal, and the tribes of Tilea and 

Estalia raised her as their Queen. Yet fresh was the crown on 

her brow when a dart daubed in poison laid her low, and with 

her dying breath she bade them build a Great Ship, and she 

drifted seawards to the West, following the undying sun. And so 

she was raised once more to the halls of the divine, to rule the 

southern lands from a Heavenly Throne…’

Whether  this  is  a  matter  of  historical  fact  is  best 

treated  with  healthy  scepticism,  but  it  is  certain  is  that 

relationships between followers of Myrmidia in Tilea and 

Estalia are tense and show no signs of waning. 

The  head  of  the  Order  of  the  Eagle  and  high  priestess 

of  the  cult,  La  Aguila  Ultima  Isabella  Giovanna 

Luccelli,  despite  being  Tilean  herself,  has  moved  to 

Magritta and re-established the cult’s high council at the 

Archecclesiastium. She has taken this course of action in 

the hope that it will help ease tensions, but many Tileans 

regard the move as a humiliation.

the oUtsideR’s peRspeCtive
Sacred  statuettes  of  a  female  form  with  arms  and 

armour, roughly hewn from stone, have been dug up by 

those  foolish  enough  to  delve  into  the  ancient  barrows 

that dot the Old World, braving the Wights that guard 

them. These  rare  items,  which  fetch  a  prestigious  price 

among antiquarians, suggest that a warrior goddess was 

worshipped  by  the  people  who  raised  these  mounds, 

though whether they represent Myrmidia is debatable. 

Theologians  of  the  Empire  are  careful  not  to  incite  the 

ire of the followers of a god, but many of them secretly 

dispute  the  notion  of  a  southern  empire  and  go  so  far 

as  suggest  that  the  legends  of  Myrmidia  are  simply 

poor imitations of the legend of Sigmar that contradict, 

rather than support, known facts about the history of the 

southern realms.

64

VIUP IN ARMSthe CULt in the empiRe
In  the  Empire,  Myrmidians  have  little  influence.  Her 

A massive statue of the goddess tumbled from its perch, 

high on the temple roof, and came crashing down upon the 

methods in warfare lack the direct ferocity of Ulric or the 

leader of the foe and pulverising his minions right and left. 

patriotic  fervour  of  Sigmar.  She  is  deemed  an  ‘officer’s 

The survivors turned and fled. The heroic knights thought 

goddess’  with  little  to  offer  the  common  soldier.  Most 

nothing of their safety but used this respite from battle to 

Myrmidians  are  regarded  with  a  mixture  of  suspicion 

rescue many Estalian civilians who were huddling within 

and curiosity, though the Knights of the Blazing Sun are 

the temple and lead them from the killing grounds. The 

respected  throughout  the  Empire,  famed  as  the  first  of 

surviving  knights  converted  en-masse  to  Myrmidia  and 

the Knightly Orders to pledge their allegiance to Magnus 

honoured her name by fighting under the banner of the 

the Pious during the Great War Against Chaos.

Blazing Sun. Returning to the Empire, they dedicated a 

shrine to the goddess at Talabheim, which today is their 

The worship of Myrmidia arrived relatively late, brought 

foremost Chapterhouse. 

northwards by mercenaries returning from the employ of 

warring Tilean city-states, around the first millennium of 

Inspired by the feats of the knights, worship of Myrmidia 

the Imperial Calendar. Although nowhere near rivalling 

among  the  folk  of  the  Empire  has  grown  steadily. 

the  native  cults  of  Sigmar  and  Ulric,  Myrmidia  was  a 

Nowadays shrines to the goddess are dotted throughout 

welcome  addition  to  the  spiritual  arsenal  an  Imperial 

the nation, and most major cities have a temple dedicated 

commander  could  call  upon  to  win  victory  in  battle. 

to her teachings. 

As the Empire descended into civil war, worship of the 

goddess  in  the  Empire  ebbed  away.  Her  strictures  on 

The  cult  is  also  growing  popular  with  women  in  the 

honourable  combat  fell  from  favour  in  those  dark  and 

Empire. She is not seen as a chauvinistic god, like Ulric, 

desperate times. During the wars against the Ratmen that 

and teaches arts of war which favour clever and adaptable 

commenced in 1111 IC, prayers made to the goddess for 

fighters over the merely strong. Women whose sons and 

deliverance from the Skaven menace went unanswered.

husbands are at war also seek her blessing. They ask her 

to guide the officers into wise decisions that will see their 

It was not until the Crusades of 1448 IC that the cult of 

loved  ones  return  home  again.  The  saying  has  it  that 

Myrmidia again rose in prominence within the Empire. 

‘Sigmar takes you to war, but Myrmidia brings you back.’ 

Hundreds of Imperial knights rallied to the call of King 

Followers of Sigmar do not appreciate the sentiment.

Louis  the  Righteous  of  Bretonnia  to  free  Estalia  from 

the  clutches  of  the  Arabyan  sultan.  With  his  defeat, 

There  are  a  surprising  number  of  especially  fervent 

a  new  Imperial  Knightly  Order  marched  homeward 

worshippers of Myrmidia within one section of Imperial 

from  the  parched  lands  of  the  distant  south,  having 

society. The Myrmidons are a group of twelve drawn from 

been  instrumental  in  the  liberation  of  Estalia  and  the 

noble families who once lived in the former province of 

destruction of forts and palaces in Araby. 

Solland. The sun symbol of Solland resembles Myrmidian 

iconography,  and  the  twelve  Myrmidons  are  charged 

During  the  legendary  Battle  of  Magritta,  three-score 

with the secret safekeeping of the crown of Solland. They 

knights  of  the  Empire  held  their  ground  as  wave  after 

look to Myrmidia for inspiration. It is common amongst 

wave  of  Black  Scimitar  Guard  crashed  against  them. 

these  families  and  other  nobles  linked  with  Solland  to 

Finding  themselves  on  deadly  ground,  with  their  backs 

encourage their sons to join the ranks of the Knights of 

to the wall of a temple to Myrmidia, they prayed to the 

the Blazing Sun. The group are also rumoured to have ties 

goddess for a valiant death in the face of the uncountable 

of obligation to the Lietdorf family of Averland, though 

enemy. Such was their valour that Myrmidia smiled upon 

the degree to whether the Lietdorfs owe their fortunes to 

them, and the earth trembled. 

the Myrmidons, or vice versa, is unclear.

65

VITHE CULT OF MYRMIDIAFIGURES IMPORTANT TO THE MYRMIDIAN CULT

aLLURian
(-3567 IC to -967 IC)

BeRndt LavaspeaR
(-1842 IC to -1621 IC)

Considered by many to be the greatest High Elf tactician 

Berndt  Lavaspear  lived  during  the  War  of  Vengeance 

who  ever  lived,  Allurian  wrote  her  earliest  treatises 

when the Dwarfs struggled against the Elves. Berndt was 

on  grand  strategy  during  the  reign  of  Bel  Shanaar  the 

a product of his time and most of his analysis focused on 

Explorer.  Allurian  was  a  keen  observer  of  politics  and 

making the most of the Dwarfs’ strengths while exploiting 

the  study  of  the  cultures  and  behaviours  of  species 

the Elves’ weaknesses. Despite his limited perspective he 

throughout the world, and her insights were even credited 

is  considered  by  many  to  be  the  finest  Dwarf  strategist 

for the many military successes of Caledor the Conqueror 

who  ever  lived,  and  even  Gotrek  Starbreaker,  who  won 

(-2749 IC to -2199 IC). Allurian was a battlefield advisor 

the  war’s  definitive  victory  long  after  Berndt  had  died, 

to many of the Phoenix Kings until the reign of Tethlis 

was said to have studied his dense and exhaustive texts. 

the Slayer (-996 IC to -692 IC). She died alongside her 

king,  and,  like  him,  the  manner  of  her  death  is  unclear 

Many  Myrmidians  swear  by  Berndt’s  The  Dwarf  Art  of 

and a cause of much argument.

War, though he is not as celebrated as Allurian. His text is 

seen as a reaction to the High Elf ’s work, and he devotes 

It would be a grave mistake to call Allurian a Myrmidian, 

huge  sections  to  nit-picking  complaints  regarding 

for she worshipped the Elven Pantheon and died nearly 

Allurian’s  occasional  oversights  rather  than  providing 

a  millennium  before  the  cult  of  Myrmidia  came  into 

workable alternatives of his own. That said, his advocates 

being. However, since the translation and publication of 

suggest that a synthesis of Allurian’s insight and Berndt’s 

her  collected  Elven  War  Studies,  it  would  be  fair  to  say 

critique makes for a truly versatile master strategist.

that  most  serious  Myrmidians  are  scholars  of  Allurian. 

Allurian’s advice may be over 5000 years old at this point, 

but her insights into the most efficient strategies remain 

the daRk maiden
(Circa 30 IC if legends are true)

true even in the age of roaring cannon fire. ‘Understand 

The Bellona Myrmidia’s ‘Book of Transgressions’ tells the 

Allurian,’  priests  of  Myrmidia  say,  ‘and  no  enemy  will 

tale of the Dark Maiden. She was rescued by Myrmidia 

ever  survive  contact  with  your  plans.’  The  only  text  that 

and, in thanks, warned her of an ambush that lay ahead. 

Myrmidians rate as highly as a guide to how to prosecute 

Myrmidia sent her forces to flank the ambushers, resulting 

warfare is The Book of War.

in the Massacre of the Three Gorges. 

66

VIUP IN ARMSThis battle proved a turning point in the campaign. The 

Dark  Maiden  is  referred  to  only  seven  times,  but  this 

mana-Lisi gaLeazzo
(2369 IC to 2401 IC)

has  been  enough  for  her  to  have  an  impact  upon  the 

Mana-Lisi  was  the  daughter  of  Old  General  Galeazzo, 

Myrmidian cult.

castellan  of  Monte  Castello.  When  the  Orc  horde  of 

Ugluth  the  Vile  attacked  the  fortress  in  2401  IC,  the 

She is also rumoured to have produced a testament of her 

defenders  found  themselves  massively  outnumbered. 

own, full of prophecies and world-shaking philosophical 

When Galeazzo was struck down Mana-Lisi hid his body, 

truths,  though  if  such  a  work  exists  it  has  never  been 

donned his armour, and led his troops as they proceeded 

revealed to the wider world. Despite her relative obscurity 

to repulse three further attacks. During the last of these 

three  separate  Knightly  Orders  dedicate  themselves  to 

assaults Mana-Lisi lost her helm, and the men uncovered 

her, and two Monastic Orders practice a form of reclusive 

the ruse. Their morale was nearly broken, and they began 

lifestyle inspired by her teachings.

to talk of risking everything in a desperate sally.

LeonaRdo di miRagLiano
(1978 IC to 2027 IC)

Mana-Lisi,  a  student  of  Myrmidian  strategy,  pointed 

out  to  the  wavering  men  that  if  the  Orcs  were  allowed 

Leonardo  is  commonly  cited  as  the  greatest  human 

to  enter  the  fortress  they  would  defile  Tintoverdi’s 

genius,  a  master  of  art  and  science  whose  insights  and 

greatest  masterpiece,  The  Five  Seasons,  which  adorned 

achievements  remain  peerless  despite  500  years  of 

the  commandantery’s  banqueting  room. This  was  widely 

subsequent progress. Myrmidia is often referred to as the 

regarded  as  the  finest  fresco  in  the  world,  and  she  asked 

patron of the science of war, and Leonardo was a devotee 

those who wished to defend the work to remain, whilst the 

of the goddess. 

others could go. Shamed by her bravery, the soldiers fought 

to the last. Three months later a relief force from Luccini 

He  devoted  his  work  to  her,  depicting  her  likeness  and 

liberated the castle, finding just twenty five pikemen alive 

deeds  in  many  artworks,  in  particular  the  magnificent 

inside. Mana-Lisi herself had been slain by a Goblin arrow. 

imagery of the domed fresco in Wurtbad’s temple. He is 

To this day many mercenaries bear heraldry of Myrmidia 

also  famed  for  his  military  engineering  work,  including 

depicted with the face of Mana-Lisi.

the  invention  and  fabrication  of  twelve  steam  tanks. 

Those  who  knew  Leonardo  said  that  he  intended  his 

war machines as a votive offering to the goddess (though 

ennio moRdini
(2369 IC to 2411 IC and then 2416 IC to Present)

the  fact  that  he  was  sponsored  in  his  work  by  patrons 

Mordini  was  one  of  the  most  renowned  mercenary 

as  wealthy  as  Prince  Cosimo  of  Miragliano  and  Prince 

commanders of Tilea’s Era of Enlightenment. He claimed 

Stephan Franz of Altdorf certainly helped).

he was blessed by both Myrmidia and Morr, and it was 

said that to serve under his command was to court victory 

The  Imperial  School  of  Engineers  is  careful  to  position 

and  cheat  death.  Ennio  worked  for  Duke  Fabriano  of 

itself as a secular institution, with a moderate Sigmarite 

Lumbrusco, a princedom by the the Apuccini Mountains. 

bias  (such  attitudes  being  deemed  as  fit  and  proper  for 

Behind Ennio’s back the Duke and his rival, the Duke of 

any  major  institution  in  Altdorf ).  As  a  divinity  with  a 

Organza, came to an agreement. Fabriano ordered Ennio 

particular association with the science of war, Myrmidia 

to march on Organza, sending the mercenary to his death 

has many admirers within the school. Soldiers of the rank 

in a a well-prepared ambush. Five years later, an army of 

and  file  may  well  deem  Myrmidia  an  officer’s  deity,  but 

mail-clad skeletons marched out of the mountains under 

she  has  some  of  her  most  fervent  admirers  within  the 

the  tattered  banner  of  Mordini. They  cut  the  armies  of 

ranks of the engineers.

Lambrusco to ribbons and razed the city to the ground. 

It is said that Mordini has now re-fortified the city and 

established a court of the dead there.

67

VITHE CULT OF MYRMIDIABoRgio the BesiegeR
(2452 IC to 2305 IC)

giovanni maRmaLodi
(2477 IC to the present day)

Borgio,  the  Prince  of  Miragliano,  was  nicknamed  ‘The 

Marmalodi is a Myrmidian priest from Tobaro who has 

Besieger’  as  a  result  of  his  many  successful  military 

become a noted expert in siege warfare.  His Treatise on 

campaigns. During his life he fought against every major 

the Deliverance of Castles is considered the definitive guide 

principality in Tilea. 

to the storming of fortresses by Tobarans. 

A  student  of  Myrmidian  tactics,  Borgio  implemented 

Marmalodi’s  style  is  brusque  and  unsentimental,  and 

many strategic techniques, from employing cunning ruses 

more politically-minded Myrmidians feel that he makes 

in  battle  to  inspiring  his  troops  by  leading  by  example 

for  a  poor  example  of  a  figurehead.  They  point  to  his 

and even mucking in with the construction of moats and 

advice  that  fortress  gates  be  made  to  be  no  more  than 

earthworks. In 2489 IC, he defeated Remas at the Battle 

four feet high in order to foil attacks by Giants and Ogres 

of  Villa  Vennia,  where  he  famously  goaded  the  Reman 

and cite it as a typical example of what happens if military 

army over a freezing river and into an ambush. In 2495 

strategy is prioritised over other obvious considerations. 

IC,  he  defeated  Verezzo  in  the  Battle  of  Via  Veddia 

This  lack  of  perspective  has  made  Giovanni  a  figure  of 

where he is said to have hidden half his forces behind a 

fun in cities such as Verezzo and Miragliano.

small hill. In 2497 IC, he defeated Trantio in the Battle 

of Vittoria Viccia after luring them into an encirclement. 

He was found dead in his bath in 2305 IC, after having 

been stabbed with a poisoned toasting fork.

vaLanCoURt of nULn
(2455 to the present day)

Notable Myrmidian strategists tend to devote themselves 

to  understanding  the  grand  sweep  of  war,  how  best 

to  deploy  an  army,  position  a  battalion,  or  utilise  a 

regiment. The training of individual soldiers is considered 

important, but Valancourt of Nuln is unusual in that he 

has  dedicated  his  life  to  the  pursuit  of  expertise  in  the 

strategy and mastery of single combat. He is one of the 

most  sought-after  tutors  of  fencing  in  the  Old  World, 

and  his  students  include  Johann  von  Mecklenburg,  the 

BELIEFS

late  Count  Leos  von  Liebwitz,  and,  it  is  rumoured,  the 

The precepts of the cult of Myrmidia are largely derived 

master assassin Vespero ‘the Wasp’ of Luccini. 

from  The  Book  of War  which  gives  an  account  of  twelve 

great battles fought in the classical age, together with an 

Valancourt is a controversial figure within the Myrmidian 

exhaustive commentary. Myrmidia is the goddess of the 

cult. His prices are extortionate, leading critics to claim 

battlefield,  inspirer  of  tactical  brilliance,  and  progenitor 

that the Myrmidians are an elitist cult with little to offer 

of honourable warfare. There are three main traits which 

common  folk.  Valancourt  defends  himself  by  pointing 

those  who  dedicate  themselves  to  Myrmidia  consider 

out that he leads a rather humble life, donating most of 

worthy beyond all other things: honour, knowledge, and 

his earnings to the Temple of Myrmidia in Nuln.

aesthetic flair.

68

VIUP IN ARMSA  devotee  of  Myrmidia  must  conduct  themselves  with 

improvement of fighting styles, and the honing of tactical 

honour. This is not honour in the sense that most warriors 

finesse. Such expertise cannot solely be found within the 

might  recognise  it.  The  honour  Myrmidia  respects  is 

pages  of  training  manuals  —  and  the  goddess  expects 

that  the  lives  of  soldiers  are  not  needlessly  wasted.  An 

her devotees to seek out opponents from whom they can 

Ulrican may regard ruses and ambushes as dishonourable, 

learn new techniques.

a  Myrmidian  would  not,  provided  those  things  were 

employed to win wars quickly and decisively.

Finally,  a  follower  of  Myrmidia  should  care  for  the 

aesthetic qualities of their martial equipment. They spend 

If  an  enemy  behaves  with  no  honour,  bullies  the  weak, 

hours  polishing  their  armour  and  honing  their  blades. 

oppresses  the  peaceful,  then  the  follower  of  Myrmidia 

Master  weaponsmiths  and  armourers  are  esteemed  by 

must  give  no  quarter.    A  follower  of  Myrmidia  might 

the  cult  and  are  often  employed  at  the  temples  of  the 

roam the lands hunting for worthy opponents, but they 

goddess.  A  master-crafted  sword  or  perfectly  fashioned 

also seek to redress wrongs and injustices wherever they 

helm is treated with reverence and believed to be imbued 

encounter them.

with the essence of the goddess herself.  

Their sense of honour extends also to the dead — friends 

who  fall  in  battle  must  be  retrieved  and  given  worthy 

A HOLY FAMILY

funerary  rites,  and  a  valiant  enemy,  too,  must  be  so 

More  than  any  other  of  the  Old World’s  major  deities, 

honoured if they succumb in combat. 

Myrmidia  is  understood  in  relation  to  her  relationship 

to  her  divine  family.  Her  domain  is  the  science  and 

According to Myrmidians it is a supreme act of dignity 

strategy  of  warfare,  but  theologians,  especially  those  of 

to  submit  one’s  will  to  one’s  master,  be  it  lord,  battle 

the Empire, point out that she shares important aspects 

commander, or high priest. Disobedience is tantamount 

with her relations among the pantheon. Like Verena she 

to  disrespect  for  the  goddess.  However,  an  order  that 

is obsessed with wisdom, for erudition contributes to the 

commands  an  act  of  wickedness  must  be  disobeyed. 

formulation  of  cunning  ruses  and  fresh  strategic  vision. 

Indeed, the conveyor of such an order must be punished. 

Insight, a domain of her father Morr, is also important to 

This belief ensures that power never corrupts those who 

a general or tactician, and Myrmidia’s domain is that of 

wield  it  within  the  cult  —  as  the  master  is  ultimately 

warfare, where death is always at hand. Yet the worship of 

judged by the servants.

Myrmidia is not associated with immoderate ferocity and 

A  Myrmidian  should  also  have  an  unquenchable  thirst 

for  knowledge.  A  devotee  believes  it  is  their  obligation 

A  rare  few  bolder  theologians  point  out  that  Ranald, 

to  seek  out  texts  from  across  the  world  that  illuminate 

owing  his  divinity  to  Shallya,  has  a  relationship  with 

ancient or exotic modes of warfare, fighting techniques, 

Myrmidia,  and  that  trickery  is  also  an  essential  part  of 

bloodthirst, so like Shallya she is merciful. 

and  records  of  forgotten  battles.  A  rare  treatise  on  the 

her makeup.

art  of  war  is  considered  a  holy  artefact.  The  original 

will  be  housed  in  one  of  the  cavernous  libraries  of  the 

With the debateable exception of Taal and Rhya, no other 

Archecclesiastium or the Great Temple, whichever is the 

major  god  shares  so  much  of  their  own  domain  with 

highest bidder.

others. In the Empire the more close-minded theologians 

argue that this makes Myrmidia a rather irrelevant deity, 

The  quest 

for  knowledge  not  only  encompasses 

unworthy  of  worship.  Myrmidians  obviously  disagree, 

physical  relics.  For  the  true  Myrmidian,  the  search  for 

saying that their goddess is both relatable and specific.

inner  knowledge  is  a  spiritual  duty  that  includes  the 

69

VITHE CULT OF MYRMIDIASTRICTURES OF MYRMIDIA

More  than  many  deities,  Myrmidia’s  strictures  come 

show no meRCy to the 
UnRepentant enemies of hUmanity 
This is another controversial stricture. Myrmidians debate 

with  caveats  and  exceptions. There  are  several  apparent 

what constitutes an enemy of Humanity, what constitutes 

contradictions  involved  in  the  practice  of  Myrmidian 

genuine contrition, and how ruthless opposition to such 

faith.  Trickery  is  part  of  Myrmidia’s  domain,  yet  so 

enemies can be pursued without violating other strictures. 

is  honour;  mercy  is  part  of  her  makeup,  but  so  too  is 

When  dealing  with  followers  of  Chaos,  Orcs,  Goblins, 

ruthlessness. To abide by her strictures without offending 

Skaven,  and  other  wicked  species,  Myrmidians  do  not 

the goddess is to understand their subtleties.
aCt with honoUR and 
dignity in aLL matteRs. 
To tell an Ulrican or Sigmarite that Myrmidians abide by 

suffer  the  displeasure  of  the  Goddess  provided  they 

remain cool and efficient in their ruthlessness. 
oBey aLL honoURaBLe oRdeRs 

There  is  plenty  of  debate  within  the  cult  as  to  what 

a stricture of honour is a good way to provoke either a fit 

constitutes an honourable order and, more controversially, 

of laughter or a fight. They will point out that many of the 

why  an  honourable  but  incompetent  order  ought  to  be 

most beloved parables and lessons taught by her priests 

obeyed.  Generally,  if  a  Myrmidian  feels  that  an  order 

involve  planned  deceptions  that  lure  whole  armies  to 

is  genuinely  counterproductive  and  voices  their  own 

their deaths — hardly their notion of honour and dignity.

opinion as to why, they are no longer required to regard 

The stricture to act with honour and dignity is a personal 

it as honourable. 

one,  expected  of  the  individual  follower.  Should  that 

That  said,  there  have  been  times  when  the  goddess  has 

follower  invent  a  ruse  that  depends  on  their  regiment, 

withheld  her  favour  from  a  Myrmidian  who  disobeyed 

army, or institution to behave in an apparently underhand 

what  they  felt  to  be  a  poor  order.  In  these  cases,  it  is 

way to bring it about, that would not violate the stricture 

because there has been a grander strategic vision served by 

provided  such  means  were  justified  by  the  anticipated 

an apparently stupid tactical decision, and the Myrmidian 

ends.  The  goddess  certainly  does  not  withhold  her 

favour from the architects of cunning ruses. Myrmidians 

consider a battle plan that spares their own side needless 

death and suffering an honourable one.
RespeCt  pRisoneRs  of  waR  and  neveR 
kiLL an enemy who sURRendeRs. 
Myrmidia’s cult developed in the crucible of war between 

in question lacked the perspective to see it.
pReseRve the weak fRom 
the hoRRoRs of waR 
This  is  another  stricture  that  provokes  debate,  as 

Myrmidians  point  out  that  many  combatants  are  levied 

from  unwilling  demographics,  are  improperly  trained, 

misled  by  propaganda,  Halflings,  or  otherwise  weak. 

the  various  petty  kingdoms  that  would  come  to  form 

The  stricture  is  therefore  understood  to  apply  to  non-

Tilea  and  Estalia.  The  stricture  to  respect  prisoners  of 

combatants.  A  few  hard-line  Myrmidians  try  to  design 

war is broadly understood to extend to Humans, Dwarfs, 

battle  plans  that  minimise  the  involvement  of  hastily 

Elves  and  Halflings,  the  few  species  who  can  be  relied 

levied troops, though the goddess does not tend to punish 

on  to  reciprocate  such  mercy.  Myrmidian  theologians 

those  more  practical  Myrmidians  who  admit  that  such 

constantly  argue  as  to  whether  Ogres  or  Lizardmen 

feats are beyond their ability.

ought to be included, or whether the principle should be 

universal. The summary execution of vanquished Skaven, 

Orcs,  or  Goblins  rarely  offends  the  goddess,  though 

within  that  framework  the  deliberate  imposition  of 

unnecessary suffering does incur her wrath.

70

VIUP IN ARMSCULT SUPERSTITIONS

myRmidia and ULRiC
There  are  fundamental  differences  in  their  respective 

As  well  as  cult  strictures,  there  are  several  superstitions 

approaches to warfare that have caused friction between 

common to the cult. These tend to be associated with the 

the  cults  of  Myrmidia  and  Ulric.  Myrmidians  tend  to 

Tilean branch of the cult and are regarded as rather folksy 

regard  Ulricans  as  brutal  and  barbaric,  and  in  return 

and unnecessary by Myrmidians in Estalia. 

Ulricans regard Myrmidians as tricksy and effete. This is 

0

0

0

0

0

It is considered bad luck to kill an eagle, witness the 

death of an eagle, or come across an eagle’s corpse. 

The  eagle  is  the  symbol  of  Myrmidia  and  Tilean 

shepherds would even prefer to lose lambs than kill 

one of the great birds of prey.

When a priest of Myrmidia wakes they often don 

their armour, taking painstaking time to check that 

each piece fits closely and is sound. Then, if they are 

not actually at war, they take it off again.

All Myrmidians — Tilean, Estalian and otherwise 

—  regard  it  as  proper  to  always  have  a  weapon  at 

hand.

Respecting  clear  chains  of  authority  and  plans  of 

action, even in informal situations such as spending 

an evening trawling dockside taverns, is common to 

Myrmidians.

Myrmidians regard it as bad luck to enter any space 

not  a  deep  and  bitter  disagreement,  but  it  does  cause  a 

degree of confusion and division particularly among lay 

followers of the gods.

Both cults have a focus on warrior honour, but principles 

that  Myrmidia  might  suggest  are  suitable  for  an 

individual  soldier  —  devotion  to  training,  loyalty  to 

their cause, fierce in the face of their enemy, honest and 

open  in  their  personal  dealings  —  Ulricans  tend  to  see 

as suitable for a military force in its totality. An Ulrican 

commander  might  regard  a  suitable  battlefield  as  one 

which allows most of the opposing forces to fight all at 

once. The Myrmidian obsession for seeking ground that 

helps  multiply  their  own  force  and  deny  the  enemy  the 

opportunity  to  properly  deploy  is  seen  as  needless  time 

wasting, if not cowardly. Quoting Allurian’s aphorism ‘a 

Dwarf sees a battlefield in a good place to fight, an Elf sees 

a battlefield in a good place to win’ does not help matters.

where they are placed at a tactical disadvantage, such 

More  thoughtful  Ulricans  see  in  Myrmidia  a  more 

as blind alleyways, or rooms with only one entrance.

relatable  figure,  as  Ulric’s  twin  domains  of  war  and 

RELATIONS WITH 
OTHER CULTS

survival  support  rather  than  undermine  an  appreciation 

of strategy. Their problem with Myrmidia is not that she 

promotes  a  dishonourable  or  cowardly  form  of  warfare, 

but that she is a foreign goddess whose domain competes 

The cult of Myrmidia has warm relations with the cults 

with that of Ulric.

of  Verena,  Morr,  and  Shallya.  Her  dealings  with  the 

other cults of the Old World are largely uncomplicated. 

The  cults  of  Taal  and  Rhya  have  little  to  do  with  that 

myRmidia and sigmaR
Sigmarites  tend  to  show  an  appreciation  of  Myrmidian 

of  Myrmidia  but  find  little  to  object  to  with  it  either. 

strategy  and  often  make  quite  public  appearances  at 

The  cult  shares  a  bond  of  respect  with  the  Bretonnian 

Myrmidian temples, leafling through copies of Lavaspear’s 

Lady of the Lake, but it has little influence in Bretonnia 

The Dwarf Art of War in the temple library and reminding 

and  avoids  evangelising  to  Bretonnians.  Her  cult  is 

the Myrmidian priests of their shared historical victories.

vehemently  opposed  to  the  gods  normally  proscribed 

in  the  Old  World  —  the  Gods  of  Chaos,  Khaine,  and 

In  many  cases  this  show  of  shared  interests  and 

Stromfels.

historical  alliance  is  performed  in  good  faith.  Many 

Sigmarite  priests  genuinely  appreciate  their  Myrmidian 

counterparts  and  benefit  from  consideration  of  their 

71

VITHE CULT OF MYRMIDIA 
 
 
 
 
strategic  insights.  Others  are  not  so  interested  in  the 

There  are  Myrmidians  who  find  some  common  cause 

goddess or her cult but realise that it frustrates Ulricans 

with Ranaldan thought. Ranald is a god of trickery, and 

to encourage the cult of Myrmidia. There is a small but 

the  well-executed  ruse  is  a  staple  of  much  Myrmidian 

growing  tendency  within  the  cult  of  Sigmar  to  regard 

instruction.  Some  moderate  Myrmidians  also  point  out 

Myrmidians as interlopers who are not fit to have their 

that,  like  their  own  deity,  Ranald  stands  in  opposition 

cult  recognised  in  the  Empire. They  are  inspired  by  the 

to  injustice.  However,  Myrmidia  is  often  considered  an 

inflammatory  publications  of  Professor  Pfaff,  a  scholar 

officer’s  goddess,  and  her  cult  regards  the  resentment 

of  theology  at  the  University  of  Altdorf.  He  feels  that 

Ranaldans have for aristocracy as vulgar.

Sigmar  is  the  only  fitting  god  for  Humanity,  being  the 

only god to have enjoyed life as a mortal. He disputes that 

Myrmidia stands as a similar example of such a deity, and 

myRmidia and soLkan
An  obscure  god,  Solkan  is  a  deity  whose  domain  is 

his chauvinism is drawing increasing support from within 

concerned  with  vengeance.  Oddly,  perhaps,  his  cult 

the official cult. Whilst not large or influential enough to 

shares  certain  similarities  with  that  of  Myrmidia,  being 

threaten  the  cult  of  Myrmidia  now,  their  movement  is 

represented by sun symbols and having its spiritual centre 

gaining momentum.

at Remas.

myRmidia and handRiCh
Handrich,  as  he  is  known  in  the  Empire,  is  a  minor 

Theologians  has  expressed  suspicion  that  the  cults  of 

Solkan and Myrmidia share common roots. Perhaps there 

god  whose  cult  is  yet  to  be  widely  established.  His 

was  a  primal  form  of  the  two  deities  who  represented 

domain is trade and business, and most of his followers 

vengeance as practised through warfare, with Myrmidia 

are  merchants. The  cult  is  very  friendly  towards  that  of 

coming to represent the moderate and considered aspect, 

Myrmidia; merchants like to sponsor military endeavours 

and  Solkan  the  harsher,  unforgiving  aspect.  Solkanites 

as  it  is  seen  as  civic  of  them,  and  merchants  claim  that 

deny  this.  Instead,  they  prefer  to  credit  Solkan  for 

many  of  the  strategic  techniques  developed  for  the 

inspiring Myrmidia in her development from a pacifistic 

battlefield could also be applied in commerce.

goddess  of  civilisation  into  the  rather  more  martial 

Myrmidians  are  generally  happy  enough  to  talk  to 

members of the cult of Handrich, though there is debate 

among the higher echelons of the cult as to whether too 

character she displays in the present day.

WORSHIPPERS

much association with the world of business might offend 

The cult of Myrmidia is quite widespread throughout the 

Myrmidian notions of honour.

myRmidia and RanaLd
Officially  the  Myrmidian  cult  does  not  associate  with 

Empire. Many individuals whose livelihood depends on 

their  proficiency  with  a  blade  —  soldiers,  bodyguards, 

adventurers and so on — might carry on their person a 

trinket fashioned in the image of the goddess, or in the 

followers  of  Ranald  and  regards  his  cult  with  a  degree 

shape of one of her symbols: a spear behind a shield, an 

of  umbrage.  According  to  legend,  Ranald  achieved  his 

eagle or lion sigil, or a talisman in the form of a sun with a 

divine  status  through  tricking  Shallya  —  and  whilst 

face with a proud, angry, or jubilant expression. The family 

Shallya  might  be  a  goddess  of  mercy,  her  sister  is  not. 

of a soldier enlisted to war, or of a conscript, might place a 

Ranald is seen as a dishonourable and disreputable god, 

statuette of Myrmidia in a corner of their house, and burn 

and  his  worship  offends  Myrmidian  sensibilities  on  a 

candles before it in return for their loved one’s safe return 

fundamental  level  as  well  as  spiritual  one.  Myrmidians 

from the battlefield. Craftsmen who specialise in forging 

are wary of invoking a desire to benefit from good luck; 

battle equipment might hang her symbol above the forge, 

this is seen as undermining the trust they place in a well-

so that they might always strive to perfection. 

executed plan, as opposed to a careless throw of the dice.

72

VIUP IN ARMSHowever,  the  majority  of  those  who  become  priests  or 

join one of the knightly orders of the goddess come from 

initiation
Whilst she is seen as a southern god, worshipped primarily 

the  upper  echelons  of  society. The  cult  prizes  above  all 

by  the  people  of  Tilea  and  Estalia,  the  cult  is  open  to 

duty,  honour,  and  learnedness,  and  these  qualities  are 

anyone  who  shows  proper  respect  in  the  honourable 

found  most  often  among  the  noble  class,  who  have  the 

lifestyle  the  cult  demands,  and  who  can  impress  their 

resources  to  be  well-educated  and  the  opportunity  to 

sincerity upon an ordained priest.

practise moral integrity. 

Initiation  into  the  cult  of  Myrmidia  almost  never 

Membership of the cult is often sought for the sons and 

involves  a  rite  of  combat.  This  surprises  some,  but  the 

daughters  of  up-and-coming  mercantile  families  eager 

reason  is  that  aspirants  are  thoroughly  vetted  before 

for a seat at the table alongside those of the ‘old blood’. 

initiation takes place. Such aspirants are robed in white, 

The  cult  judges  its  members  by  their  deeds,  not  their 

their heads bare to the elements, and attached in groups 

heritage, so if a would-be initiate is committed to improve 

of four, known as a ‘Flight’, under the auspices of a priest. 

their intellect, train hard in combat, and proves to be of 

Together they form a lifelong bond, honing their martial 

high moral fibre, they are gladly admitted. Sometimes a 

skills on the temple’s training courts, and their intellect in 

family  might  try  to  push  an  unsuitable  candidate  into 

the libraries and lecture halls. The best of each Flight will 

the  Myrmidian  clergy,  but  unlike  many  other  cults,  the 

be elevated to the rank of First Eagle, and at 

high integrity demanded by Myrmidia means that those 

this  stage  they  can  become  a  full-fledged 

unworthy  are  routinely  rejected,  no  matter  how  much 

priest. But first, they must perform a task 

gold is offered to ‘repair the temple roof ’.  

that  makes  them  worthy  in  the  eyes  of 

Myrmidia  —  a  test  of  heroism  or  of 

In  the  Empire,  the  cult  has  a  much  weaker  following 

strength or of their sharpness of mind. 

than  in  the  southern  nations  of  the  Old  World,  where 

Only when a First Eagle passes this 

Myrmidia  is  held  in  great  reverence  by  folk  from  all 

task will they be anointed as priest 

classes.  It  tends  to  attract  Imperial  tacticians  of  war  — 

and pass into the ranks of their 

generals,  captains,  and  other  officers  of  noble  birth,  for 

preferred Order.

whom  battlefield  manoeuvres  and  the  movement  of 

entire bodies of men are of vital interest. 

They might send their most promising son to the shrine 

at Talabheim, to be inducted in the elite Knights of the 

Blazing Sun, and their youngest offspring abroad to the 

Archecclesiastium or Great Temple to become an initiate 

in the cult, so that their family might have some influence 

within the faith, and access to the precious battlefield lore 

contained  within  the  sacred  libraries.  Once  elevated  as 

priests,  priests  from  the  Empire  usually  return  home, 

entering the service of the Emperor’s armies as tacticians 

and military advisors. 

73

VITHE CULT OF MYRMIDIAEach of these Eagles commands several units and is led by 

a High Priest. These units vary in size depending on how 

many  temples  of  Myrmidia  there  are  in  each  territory. 

Each  temple  is  commanded  by  a  temple  priest.  The 

temple priest is aided by one or more temple sergeants, 

who each order up to ten priests, who are entitled to take 

on up to five initiates at a time.

Typically,  a  priest  of  this  Order  within  the  Empire  can 

be  recognised  by  their  blue  cowl,  edged  in  scarlet,  their 

white robes, and white cloak, secured by  a golden  eagle 

pendant on their left breast. Small claw pins worn at the 

neck indicate the priest’s rank. 

the oRdeR of the RighteoUs speaR
Priests  of  this  Order  are  the  guardians  of  the  cult’s 

temples,  and  their  sacred  garments  typically  consist  of 

plate armour polished to a brilliant sheen, over which they 

wear white tabards emblazoned with the spear and shield 

device of Myrmidia. Their task is to defend the temple to 

which they are assigned — a task to which most dedicate 

themselves until their death. There is no retirement from 

this  sacred  post,  and  a  priest  of  this  Order  who  grows 

too  old  to  continue  his  duties  simply  marches  into  the 

the oRdeR of the eagLe
In the Bellona Myrmidia, the goddess is said to adopt the 

form of an eagle in order to scout enemy positions, and it 

wilderness to bring Myrmidia’s glory into the dark places, 

is from this legend that the Order of the Eagle take their 

and  to  seek  a  valiant  death,  spear  in  hand.  Members  of 

name. Their main responsibility is the everyday running 

this  Order  might  leave  their  post  temporarily  to  go  on 

of the cult’s temples. Among their number are those who 

missions, such as protecting a priest of the Order of the 

dedicate themselves to the ideals of the goddess through 

Eagle  on  his  journeys,  and  to  march  to  war  when  their 

their  daily  chores:  the  combat  trainers,  the  librarians, 

superiors  call  muster.  A  priest  of  the  Righteous  Spear 

the  weapon-smiths  and  armourers  of  the  cult.  Their 

might also be given leave to traverse the lands engaging 

daily  prayers  laud  the  heroic  fallen,  and  their  sermons 

in  honourable  duels,  to  improve  his  weapons-craft  and 

inspire  feats  of  valour  among  those  about  to  march  to 

learn  from  experiencing  first-hand  the  combat  skills  of 

war. An adept of the Order of the Eagle might be sent 

opponents from other cultures.  

away from their temple to trawl the dusty corridors of a 

half-forgotten  library  for  arcane  martial  lore,  or  to  lead 

In Estalia, the Order of the Righteous Spear are entrusted 

an  expedition  into  the  wilderness  to  unearth  a  sacred 

with overseeing the work carried out by the Order of the 

sword or fragment of magic armour lost on a long-hidden 

Eagle, though in other territories this oversight is seen as 

battlefield. 

unnecessary and somewhat patronising. 

The order is native to Tilea, and so is somewhat distrusted 

There  are  two  sister  orders  of  the  Righteous  Spear,  the 

in  Estalia.  The  highest-ranking  members  are  called 

Order of the Merciless Titan and the Order of the Starry 

Eagles, with a full title based on the territory they have 

Shield.  They  are  small  groups  or  hermit  knights  who 

dominion over. 

spend most of their time in solitary seclusion. 

74

VIUP IN ARMSminoR oRdeRs of myRmidia
Over  the  centuries,  the  cult  has  splintered  into  various 

The Knights of the Blazing Sun
These  warriors  are  among  the  most  distinctive  of  the 

minor  orders,  most  of  which  can  only  be  found  within 

Empire’s Knightly Orders. Clad head to foot in gleaming, 

the confines of Tilea and Estalia. Two such orders have 

ornate plate armour of black and gold, they wear as their 

spread to the Empire. 

Blessed Order of True Insight
An  ageing  devotee  of  Myrmidia  might  be  called,  in  a 

head  crest  the  symbol  of  their  Order  —  a  stylised  sun, 

which also marks the heraldry of their polished shields. 

The  Knights  of  the  Blazing  Sun  ride  wherever  the 

Empire is at most peril, eager to charge into the thick of 

blinding vision of their goddess, to join this elect order. 

the  fighting. They  might  also  march  abroad,  to Tilea  or 

As the enclaves of this small and scattered order exist in 

Estalia, should the cult of Myrmidia be threatened in the 

secluded temples, the elderly priest must first survive the 

goddess’ homelands by invading forces. 

journey through perilous wilderness, alone. They are led 

to  the  enclave  by  visions  and  signs,  and  if  they  make  it 

For more on the Knights of the Blazing Sun see page 32.

there, they are welcomed as a long-lost sibling. Devotion 

to  Myrmidia  in  these  isolated  temples  is  through  quiet 

contemplation of her holy scriptures. The silence is only 

zeaLots of myRmidia
Members  of  the  Cult  of  Myrmidia  pride  themselves 

ever  broken  when  a  priest  from  another  Myrmidian 

on  being  warriors,  but  warriors  who  exercise  rationality 

Order,  seeking  prophecy,  begs  audience  with  them,  for 

and  wisdom.  They  do  not  easily  associate  with  zealots 

the wisdom of the goddess flows through these venerable 

and  make  efforts  to  discourage  fanatics  from  claiming 

souls.  The  oracles  they  pronounce  may  stall  a  military 

that  they  act  in  the  name  of  the  goddess.  Nevertheless, 

campaign  in  its  tracks  if  they  bode  ill,  or  may  inspire  a 

there  are  two  groups  who  have  become  associated  with 

new offensive if the stars are right. 

extremist approaches to the worship of Myrmidia. 

The Order of Fury
This  order  was  little  known  within  the  Empire  until  a 

Myrmidia Perfecta
According to Tilean folklore, Myrmidia was not always 

Myrmidian priest, the Stirlander Janos Enescu, brought 

the goddess of strategy. Before her experiences as a mortal, 

its teachings to Delberz. Inspired by his charismatic and 

her divine domain was all civilisation, art, and culture. 

fiery  sermons,  four  temples  sprang  up  in  the  Reikland. 

Unlike other Orders of Myrmidia, its priests channel the 

The  fanatics  of  Myrmidia  Perfecta  believe  that  the 

energy of rage and violence into their fighting techniques. 

goddess is best understood according to her original and 

They are inspired by the legend of the shieldmaiden Fury, 

best incarnation, so much so that they regard the official 

whose  tale  is  told  in  the  Bellona  Myrmidia.  Brought 

cult as enemies of Myrmidia to be destroyed. La Aquila 

low  by  misfortunes  wreaked  upon  her  by  the  Servants 

Ultima  has  condemned  the  sect  and  commanded  that 

of  Darkness,  the  shieldmaiden  wrought  havoc  upon  an 

they  be  hunted  down  as  heretics,  but  there  are  enough 

army  of  Orcs  and  Goblins  during  her  last  stand  at  the 

zealots  in  Tilea  who  support  the  sect  to  ensure  that  it 

Battle of the Abasko Mountains, dying atop a mound of 

remains a minor but persistent threat.

their corpses, screaming her defiance to the last. Few are 

admitted to the Order, for it takes supreme self-control 

to unleash a whirlwind of righteous wrath when needed, 

Remans and Magrittans
The  debate  over  whether  Remas  or  Magritta  was  the 

and then return to calm. Members of this Order are often 

site of Myrmidia’s manifestation on earth splits the cult 

those  who  have  suffered  deeply  in  life,  and  who  seek 

along cultural as well as geographical lines.  Whilst most 

absolution  from  their  pain  in  the  arms  of  the  goddess. 

members  of  the  cult  regard  this  split  as  a  difference  of 

They  spend  their  time  away  from  fighting  in  deep 

opinion  between  friends,  there  are  extremists  who  take 

meditation, to better control their violent passions. 

things further.

75

VITHE CULT OF MYRMIDIAThe Remans believe that when Myrmidia set out to form 

her empire, she was actively opposed by the inhabitants 

of  Estalia  and  invaded  their  lands  to  bring  the  heretics 

to heel. As a consequence, they say, Estalia ought to be a 

vassal of Tilea, paying a hefty tithe in service and treasure. 

In order to see the Estalian influence in the cult reduced, 

members of this sect work to ensure that important cult 

positions  are  occupied  only  by  Tileans,  and  they  use 

politics,  bribery,  slander,  treachery,  and  even  murder  to 

achieve their aims.

The  Magrittans,  for  their  part,  hold  almost  the  same 

views, though they think it was the Tileans that resisted 

Myrmidia,  and  Estalia  that  should  benefit  from  their 

subjugation. They work to ensure that Estalians are placed 

in important cult positions.

In Tilea  and  Estalia  the  two  groups  are  small,  unloved, 

and  effectively  counter  one  another  most  of  the  time. 

However,  an  opportunity  presents  itself  in  the  fertile 

ground  of  the  Empire.  The  two  sects  have  recently 

transferred much of their efforts northwards, seeking to 

win  the  priests  in  the  Empire  to  their  respective  causes 

and to disgrace members of the opposing faction.

tempLes
Since  the  Great  War  Against  Chaos,  the  worship  of 

Myrmidia  has  spread  throughout  the  Empire,  to  the 

extent  that  all  Imperial  cities  and  many  towns  have  a 

temple to the goddess, particularly in the south. Smaller 

settlements may have shrines dedicated to her, often stone 

pillars painted gold and festooned with polished emblems 

that gleam in the sun. These are particularly common in 

border  regions,  where  battles  fought  against  marauders 

were won on account of the intervention of Myrmidian 

warrior-priests or Knights of the Blazing Sun. 

Temples  of  Myrmidia  often  employ  the  architectural 

styles  of  Tilea  and  Estalia,  with  domed  roofs  covering 

rectangular  halls.  Crenelations  ring  the  perimeter.  The 

entrance is guarded by a barbican with hefty gates and a 

portcullis, often flanked by armoured statues of Myrmidia. 

Members of the Order of the Righteous Spear patrol the 

parapets, sworn to defend the temple to the death.

LORENZO DI MARCO, EAGLE OF 
THE NORTH
The  chief  priest  of  the  Myrmidian  cult  in  the  Empire 
is known as the Eagle of the North. The current holder 
of this title is a Tilean named Lorenzo di Marco. He is 
currently  based  in  Nuln  and  commands  the  Northern 
Regiment  of  the  Order  of  the  Eagle.  This  regiment  is 
split into ten units — one for every province of the Empire 
and one for Kislev — each of which is commanded by a 
High Priest. 

Di Marco has ambitious plans to increase converts within 
the Empire. It is his private view that the native gods of 
the  North,  in  particular  Ulric  and  Sigmar,  have  failed 
their people, and that their priesthood is more concerned 
with infighting than vanquishing the enemies of Mankind. 
He believes that Myrmidia holds the key to the Empire’s 
salvation: should the Imperial armies adopt her strictures 
of honour and obedience, she will grant them final victory 
over their foes. His method of indoctrination is simple 
— fete the generals of the Emperor’s court, and win them 
over  to  the  faith  by  proving  to  them  the  effectiveness 
of  Myrmidian  battle  strategies  and  might  of  arms.  To 
this end, he urges the Knights of the Blazing Sun and 
Myrmidian  warrior-priests  to  be  present  whenever  war 
occurs in the Empire. A few generals have begun to lean 
towards  the  Myrmidian  faith,  following  valiant  victories 
where  Myrmidian  troops  have  been  instrumental  in 
holding the line against Orcs and Goblins, Chaos hordes, 
and the Undead. ‘The Eagle’ prays daily to his goddess 
that soon they will kneel before her. 

Lorenzo is frustrated in his efforts to promote Myrmidian 
influence in the Empire as a result of the divisions in the 
cult. The Order of the Eagle swears fealty to a High Eagle 
from Tilea and abide by the precepts of the cult laid down 
by the Bellona Myrmidia. However, the Templars receive 
their orders from Magritta and abide by the precepts listed 
in  the  Bellum  Strategia.  Lorenzo’s  superiors  therefore 
expect him to impose their values on the Knights of the 
Blazing Sun, which he knows they will resist.

76

VIUP IN ARMSThe architecture is outlandish to Empire folk. In wealthy 

cities, the temple walls are constructed of white marble, 

saCRed ReLiCs
The  veneration  of  holy  weapons,  armour,  or  standards 

imported from Tilea. However, most temples within the 

once carried by the Myrmidian champions of yore is an 

Empire are constructed of local materials — whitewashed 

important aspect of religious worship of the cult. Many 

timber or granite. 

temples feature at least one such magical item, preserved 

under lock and key in an ornate glass cabinet near the altar, 

The centre of worship of Myrmidia is the training court, 

before which supplicants kneel in prayer for Myrmidia’s 

where  adherents  to  the  cult  demonstrate  their  faith 

favour. The  larger  temples  in  the  Empire  house  several 

with  exhibitions  of  prowess.  To  Myrmidia  training  is 

such  heirlooms,  within  treasuries  below  the  temple.  On 

as pleasing as prayer, and the clash of arms and bark of 

occasion, the memory of the heroes associated with these 

orders is as sweet to her ears as choirs and sacred music. 

artefacts is honoured by the act of lending the item as a 

boon to an honoured individual within the cult, to wield 

The  more  circumspect  aspects  of  the  goddess  are  also 

in war. Seeing such a precious relic used in battle excites 

embodied in her temples. Within their walls are compact 

great passion in the hearts of Myrmidians, and they fight 

but  well-kept  libraries  and  circular  lecture  halls  within 

all the harder to protect it from the enemy. 

which  the  priests  hold  symposiums  on  warcraft.  The 

lessons  are  open  to  anyone  and,  unlike  the  sermons  in 

The Imperial custom of utilising the skulls of saintly men 

Sigmarite temples, they focus more on asking questions 

and  women  as  relics  is  unpopular  among  Myrmidians. 

of  the  congregation  than  preaching.  These  halls  are 

Their  sense  of  respect  for  the  dead  finds  this  habit 

often  decorated  with  friezes  depicting  the  goddess  and 

distasteful,  typical  of  the  savage  ways  of  the  folk  of 

her  associated  heroes  and  shieldmaidens.  These  images 

the  North.  The  bones  of  heroes  should  be  laid  to  rest, 

frequently depict them bearing archaic arms and dressed 

according  to  Myrmidian  strictures,  otherwise  the  souls 

in  little  more  than  scarves  tied  about  their  waists  —  a 

of the faithful might not be admitted within the ranks of 

styling that folk in the Empire find rather scandalous.

Myrmidia’s heavenly host. 

PILGRIMAGE
A  Myrmidian  is  expected  at  least  once  in  their  life  to  travel 

to the lands trod by their goddess’ mortal feet, clad head to 

foot in white garments stained by their own blood. Pilgrimage 

routes from the Empire to the Archecclesiatium in Estalia or 

the  Great  Temple  in  Remas  are  popular  among  adherents  to 

the cult, and these roads are protected by the Knights of the 

Blazing Sun, fulfilling their vows to protect the pilgrims. It is 

for this reason that the coffers of that Knightly Order overflow. 

Pilgrims returning from the southern lands, having been blessed 

by the high priests of the cult, and having kissed the relics of 

mortal Myrmidia, donate generously to the Order in thanks for 

their safekeeping. 

More  formal  worship  is  carried  out  in  the  central  hall, 

where at certain times of day Myrmidian canticles echo 

among the statues of Myrmidia, her shieldmaidens, and 

revered  heroes.  Sermons  are  preached  in  the  vernacular, 

though regular services are held in the Classical, Tilean, 

and Estalian tongue for southern expatriates. In the larger 

temples,  annexes  and  smaller  shrines  lead  off  from  the 

main hall, where individual supplicants can pray in peace. 

As  learning  is  of  great  importance,  most  temples  house 

a  small  library  of  sacred  texts,  and  the  largest  include  a 

lecture hall, open to all, where priests give talks on ancient 

battles, Myrmidian mythology, and tactical battle-lore. 

The other buildings are given over to the quarters of the 

priests and the barrack-rooms of the temple’s defenders.  

77

VITHE CULT OF MYRMIDIAPRIEST OF MYRMIDIA
Human

You  value  honour,  obedience  and  tactical  martial  prowess,  in 

‘A speedy and forecful transition to the assault — the shining 

emulation of your patron goddess, Myrmidia. 

spear of retribution — is what every effective defence ought 

to strive for.’

Myrmidian  Priests  from  the  Order  of  the  Righteous 

– Attributed to Allurian, -3325 IC

Spear  and  Order  of  Fury  help  organise  cult  meetings, 

spread  its  teachings,  and  lead  its  ceremonies.  They  are 

‘Don’t  seek  to  tell  a  Longbeard  how  to  do  things.  Tell  him 

often  sought  as  advisors  by  generals  and  mercenary 

what to do and he’ll prove his own best commander.’

commanders, particularly in Tilea and Estalia.

– Berndt Lavaspear, -1778 IC

PRIEST OF MYRMIDIA ADVANCE SCHEME

BS

S

T

I

Ag

Dex

Int WP

h

Fel

h

WS

h

CaReeR path
h First Eagle – Silver  2 
Skills: Cool, Dodge, Language (Battle), Leadership, 
Lore (Warfare), Lore (Theology), Melee (Basic), Melee 
(Polearm), Perception, Pray 
Talents: Bless (Myrmidia), Combat Aware, Etiquette 
(Cultists), Read/Write,  
Trappings: Myrmidian Holy Book, Leather Jerkin, 
Myrmidian Icon, White Robes, Spear 

 Warrior Priest – Silver 3

Skills: Charm, Entertain (Speeches), Heal, Intuition, 
Melee (Any), Ranged (Any)
Talents: Drilled, Inspiring, Invoke (Myrmidia), 
Shieldsman  
Trappings: Breastplate & Helmet, Shield

 Priest Sergeant – Silver 4

Skills: Lore (Any), Melee (Any), Research, Trade 
(Weaponsmith or Armourer)
Talents: Bookish, Holy Visions, Pure Soul, Stout-
hearted
Trappings: Full Plate Armour

 Priest Captain – Silver 5

Skills: Animal Care, Ride (Horse)
Talents: Combat Master, Combat Reflexes, Fearless 
(Any), Warleader
Trappings: Religious Relic (Myrmidian)

78

VIUP IN ARMSMIRACLES OF MYRMIDIA

Knowing that victory cannot be secured unless 

your forces stand firm you call on Myrmidia to 

Below  are  several  Myrmidian  Miracles,  which  may  be 

banish all thoughts of retreat from the minds of 

used in addition to those found in WFRP Chapter 7.

your allies. Whilst the miracle is in effect your 

Command the Legion
Range: See text 

Target: Any ally 

Duration: 1 Round

allies do not receive Broken Conditions. 

qUiCk stRike
Range: You 

Target: You 

Myrmidia  carries  your  orders  across  the  battlefield. You 

Duration: 3 Rounds

may  issue  a  command  to  any  ally  within  line  of  sight. 

Infused  with  Myrmidia’s  power,  you  benefit  from 

The  command  must  be  relevant  to  the  accomplishment 

heightened  reflexes  and  can  anticipate  your  opponent’s 

of an armed struggle or ongoing strategy. Any Leadership 

moves. At the start of every round whilst the Miracle is 

Tests you make as a result benefit from a +10 bonus.

in effect, you may attempt a Challenging (+0) Initiative 

dismay foe
Range: You 

Target: You 

Duration: 1 Round

You embody Myrmidia in her most wrathful of aspects. 

Gain the Terror 1 Creature Trait.

in good oRdeR
Range: Self

Test to gain an immediate free attack outside the normal 

turn  sequence.  This  attack  is  resolved  with  whatever 

weapon you are carrying in your primary hand.

shieLdmaiden’s devotion
Range: 36 yds 

Target: See text 

Duration: 4 Rounds

Your  chanted  prayers  fill  the  hearts  of  the  faithful 

with  the  fearlessness  of  her  bravest  Shieldmaidens.  All 

Target: Allies within AoE (Willpower yards)

Myrmidians  within  range  gain  the  Fearless  (Enemy) 

Duration: Willpower Bonus Rounds

Talent. This enemy may either be a particular individual, 

Knowing  that  the  situation  is  hopeless  you  pray  that 

or a particular species.

your  forces  do  not  suffer  from  a  disastrous  rout.  While 

the miracle is in play any allies may break from combat 

without  allowing  the  enemy  to  gain  advantage  or  make 

skiLL of ComBat
Range: 24 yds 

free attacks (see Fleeing on WFRP page 165).

Target: See text 

know yoUR enemy
Range: Willpower Yards

Target: 1

Duration: Instant

You call on Myrmidia to inform you of a nearby enemy’s 

strengths and weaknesses. The GM should allow you to 

Duration: 4 Rounds

You embody in your allies the skill of Myrmidia. Whilst 

this Miracle is in effect, all allies in range benefit from a 

+10 bonus to their WS and BS.

vengefUL wRath
Range: You 

check the profile, traits, skills and talents of the target.

Target: You 

on deadLy gRoUnd
Range: Self 

Target: You 

Duration: 6 Rounds

You are filled with the righteous indignation of Myrmidia. 

Whilst  this  Miracle  is  in  effect,  you  must  charge  and 

attack the nearest unrepentant enemy. You may reroll any 

Duration: Allies within AoE (Willpower yards)   

Melee Skill rolls you make whilst the Miracle is in effect.

79

VITHE CULT OF MYRMIDIA•

AN ALTERNATIVE
•
APPROACH TO INJURY 

This is an optional approach to Wounds, Critical Wounds, 

and death to those given in the core rulebook. If the GM 

and players prefer to use this system, it should replace the 

information given on WFRP pages 172–178.

WOUNDS, CRITICAL 
WOUNDS, AND DEATH

The  purpose  of  this  alternative  system  is  to  reduce  the 

reserves  of  energy.  By  comparison,  Critical Wounds  are 

complexity  of  the  core  system  of  tracking  injuries  and 

much  more  severe,  expressing  serious  injuries,  broken 

death, and to add tactical choices regarding where to land 

bones, torn muscles, and lesions in flesh. Critical Wounds 

blows, or where to wear heavier armour.

are debilitating and dangerous. Gain too many and you 

Wound loss represents minor cuts, bruises, and depleted 

UPDATES TO THE BLEEDING 
CONDITION
You  are  bleeding  badly.  Lose  1  Wound  at  the  end  of  every 

Round, ignoring all modifiers. Additionally, suffer a penalty of 

–10 to any Tests to resist Festering Wounds, Minor Infection, 
or  Blood  Rot  (WFRP,  page  186).  If  you  reach  0  Wounds, 
you  no  longer  lose  Wounds.  At  the  end  of  each  turn,  make 
a  Challenging  (+0)  Endurance  Test  or  immediately  gain  the 
Unconscious Condition. 

If unconscious and bleeding, at the end of Round you have a 
10%  chance  of  dying  per  Bleeding  Condition  you  have.  For 
example, if you had 3 Bleeding Conditions, you would die from 
blood loss on a roll of 0–30. If you roll a double, your wound 
clots a little and you lose 1 Bleeding Condition. You cannot 
regain consciousness until all Bleeding Conditions are removed 
(see Injury on WFRP, page 172).

A Bleeding Condition can be removed with a successful Average 
(+20)  Heal  Test,  with  each  SL  removing  an  extra  Bleeding 
Condition, or with any spell or prayer that heals Wounds, with 
1 Bleeding Condition removed per Wound healed. Also see the 
rules for Bandages on WFRP, page 309.
Once all Bleeding Conditions are removed, gain one Fatigued 
Condition.

risk death.

woUnds
Wounds  are  lost  by  sustaining  Damage.  Each  time  you 

suffer a point of damage you lose 1 Wound. Usually your 

Toughness Bonus and Armour Points reduce the damage 

you suffer.

So if you were hit on the arm for 10 Damage and your 

Toughness Bonus was 3, and you had leather armour on 

your  arm  granting  1  Armour  Point,  you  would  suffer  6 

Wounds (10 – 3 – 1 = 6). 

CRitiCaL woUnds
There are two ways to generate a Critical Wound. One is 

to inflict critical damage before your opponent is reduced 

to 0 Wounds. The other is to inflict any sort of Damage 

after your opponent has been reduced to 0 Wounds.

Inflicting a Critical Hit on 
an Opponent with Wounds
If  during  an  attack  a  character  rolls  a  double  on  the 

Melee or Ranged Test (or Weapon Skill or Ballistic Skill 

Test if you aren’t using a Skill) and succeeds at the Test, 

then  they  have  inflicted  Critical  Damage,  even  if  their 

opponent has Wounds remaining.

80

VIIDo not reverse your attack roll to find out the location of 

This means he inflicts 8 Damage reduced by Hugo’s combined 

your strike as you would do for a normal hit. Instead, roll 

Toughness  Bonus  and  Armour  Points  of  3.  Hugo  loses  5 

d100 again to work out where your hit landed. Then roll 

Wounds, leaving him with 7 Wounds remaining.

d100 again and refer to the relevant entry on the Critical 

Damage table for that location. 

In  the  following  turn,  Ibrit  hits  again,  rolling  a  11  on  his 

Inflicting a Critical Hit on
an Opponent with 0 Wounds
If  your  opponent 

is  reduced  to  0  Wounds,  you 

Melee (Basic) Test. Hugo attempts to parry, scoring 1 SL. He 

causes Critical Damage because he rolled a double, so instead 

of reversing the numbers he rolls again to determine location. 

He  rolls  34,  striking  Hugo  in  the  right  arm  again.  Ibrit 

automatically  inflict  Critical  Damage.  When  you  come 

inflicts 5 more Wounds and then rolls again to determine the 

to  resolve  the  entry  on  the  Critical  Damage  table,  add 

effect of the Critical Damage. He scores a 96. Consulting the 

+10  to  the  result  for  every  wound  you  inflicted  beyond 

Critical Damage table, he determines that he has dislocated 

that needed to reduce the opponent to 0 wounds (or, if 

Hugo’s right shoulder. 

your  opponent  was  already  on  0  wounds,  every  wound 

you inflicted).

Hugo’s good arm is useless until he can get medical attention 

and he is Stunned in the meantime. The dislocated shoulder 

Additional Wound Loss
from Critical Damage
Use the Wounds column on the Critical Damage table to 

also  causes  Hugo  4  Wounds,  reducing  him  to  -2  Wounds. 

Because this last damage was inflicted by a roll on the Critical 

Damage  table  it  does  not  cause  further  Critical  Damage. 

determine additional Wounds lost as a result of Critical 

Hugo resets to 0 Wounds.

Damage. Work out this extra damage after calculating all 

other  effects  of  normal  and  Critical  Damage.  Wounds 

Being  a  vicious  sort,  Ibrit  is  not  one  to  show  an  injured 

caused  in  this  way  do  not  cause  further  rolls  on  the 

opponent  clemency.  He  strikes  again,  rolling  a  12  on  his 

Critical Damage table. For example, an opponent reduced 

Melee (Basic) Test. This time he also causes Critical Damage 

to  0  Wounds  does  not  suffer  further  harm  from  these 

as  his  blow  will  take  Hugo  below  0  Wounds.  He  rolls  26 

additional Wounds.

to  determine  the  location:  the  right  arm  again.  Because  of 

Advantage  gained  from  Hugo’s  Stunned  Condition  and 

If a hit that does Critical Damage reduces an opponent 

levels of success, Ibrit inflicts 11 Damage, which is reduced to 

below 0 Wounds, it does not result in a second roll on the 

8 Wounds due to Hugo’s Toughness Bonus and Armour Points. 

table. In other words, each blow can only inflict a single 

Critical Wound.

This time Ibrit adds 80 to the number generated for the roll on 

the Critical Damage Table because he is inflicting 8 Wounds 

Example: Hugo Schmidt the Human Adventurer is locked in 

to an opponent on 0 Wounds. He rolls a 48. 48 + 80 = 128. 

desperate combat with Ibrit Dungstrangler the vicious Night 

Hugo  suffers  a  mangled  hand  in  addition  to  his  dislocated 

Goblin Chief.

shoulder  and  things  begin  to  look  very  bleak  indeed  for  the 

intrepid adventurer.

In  the  first  round  of  combat,  Ibrit  slashes  Hugo.  Hugo 

attempts to parry, scoring 0 SL. Ibrit rolled a 24 on his Melee 

(Basic) Test,  hitting  Hugo  in  the  right  arm  (24  reversed  is 

42, which is in the 25–44 range). Hugo wears a leather jacket 

providing him with 1 Armour Point on his arm and he has a 

Toughness Bonus of 3. Ibrit has a Strength Bonus of 3, +4 for 

using a Hand Weapon, and +1 for Success Levels (his roll of 

24 compared to his Melee (Basic) of 35).  

81

VIIAN ALTERNATIVE APPROACH TO INJURYPULLING YOUR BLOWS
The rules assume you wish to inflict all the Critical Damage 

OPTIONS: SUDDEN DEATH
As the GM, you may not wish to track the details of injuries 

you  can.  However,  you  might  wish  to  subdue  an  opponent 

for all participants, and can instead simply determine if someone 

rather than kill them. In this case, you must declare that you 

is dead or not using the Sudden Death rules. In this case, when 

are  pulling  your  blow  before  you  roll  to  hit  your  opponent, 

a target reaches 0 Wounds, the GM can simply declare them 

meaning  that  you  are  using  the  flat  of  your  blade  or  a 

dead or unconscious.

technique  to  avoid  badly  hurting  your  opponent.  In  such 

Sudden Death is useful for determining the fate of background 

circumstances  Wounds  are  still  inflicted,  but  you  only  inflict 

NPCs such as brigands or low-tier cultists, but it should not 

Critical  Damage  if  your  opponent  is  reduced  to  0  Wounds. 

be used to determine the fate of Player Characters and NPCs 
with the Luck Talent. 

You  may  not  pull  blows  with  a  weapon  that  causes  Ablaze 
Conditions, missiles, or magic spells. The following Weapon 
Qualities  are  lost  when  pulling  your  blows:  Hack,  Impact, 
Impale, and Penetrating.

death
Death  can  result  directly  from  Critical  Damage  or  if  a 

Character succumbs to many injuries.

If  a  Character  has  the  Unconscious  Condition  and  0 

Wounds,  then  they  total  up  the  number  of  Critical 

Wounds (meaning total results from the Critical Damage 

Tables)  they  currently  suffer.  If  this  number  is  greater 

than  their  Toughness  Bonus,  they  succumb  to  their 

injuries and perish at the end of the round unless they are 

healed of one or more Critical Wounds.

Furthermore, if you have the Unconscious Condition, any 

enemy  with  a  suitable  weapon  may  kill  you  if  they  can 

spend an Action to do so.

Trivial Injuries
Whilst  Critical  Damage  always  debilitates  a  Character, 

not all Critical Damage is serious enough to contribute 

to  a  Character’s  demise.  Stubbing  a  toe  is  unpleasant, 

but  not  significantly  damaging.  Trivial  injuries  have 

a Wounds  value  of ‘T’  in  the  tables  below. They  do  not 

cause  extra  Wounds  to  a  Character,  and  they  are  not 

counted  towards  the  number  of  Critical  Wounds  that 

count towards killing a Character.

82

VIIUP IN ARMS 
83

VIIAN ALTERNATIVE APPROACH TO INJURYHEAD CRITICAL WOUNDSRollDescriptionWoundsAdditional Effects01–03 Dramatic InjuryTA prink to the cheek. Gain 1 Bleeding Condition. Once healed, the scar provides a bonus of +1 SL to appropriate social Tests. You can only gain this benefit once.04–06Rattling Blow1The blow floods your vision with flashing lights. Gain 1 Stunned Condition.07–09Poked Eye1The blow glances across your eye socket. Gain 1 Blinded Condition.10–15Ear Bash1Your ear is left ringing. Gain 1 Deafened Condition.16–20Minor Cut1The strike opens your cheek. Gain 1 Bleeding Condition.21–25Black Eye2A blow glances your eye. Gain 2 Blinded Conditions.26–30Sliced Ear2A blow cuts into your ear. Gain 2 Deafened and 1 Bleeding Condition.31–35Struck Forehead2A solid blow strikes your forehead. Gain 2 Bleeding Conditions and a Blinded Condition that cannot be removed until all Bleeding Conditions are removed.36–40Fractured Jaw2The blow fractures your jaw. Gain 2 Stunned Conditions. Suffer a Broken Bone (Minor) injury.41–45Major Eye Wound3A blow strikes your eye socket. Gain 1 Bleeding Condition. Also gain 1 Blinded Condition that cannot be removed until you receive Medical Attention.46–50Major Ear Wound3The blow damages your ear. Suffer a –20 penalty on all Tests relating to hearing. If you suffer this result again, your hearing is permanently lost. 51–55Broken Nose3A solid blow to the nose. Gain 2 Bleeding Conditions. Make a Challenging (+0) Endurance Test or also gain a Stunned Condition. 56–60Broken Jaw3The blow breaks your jaw. Gain 3 Stunned Conditions. Make a Challenging (+0) Endurance Test or gain an Unconscious Condition. Suffer a Broken Bone (Major) injury.61–65Mangled Ear4A blow tears your ear apart. Gain 3 Deafened and 2 Bleeding Conditions. Lose your ear — Amputation (Average).66–75Smashed Mouth4The blow smashes out several teeth. Gain 2 Bleeding Conditions. Lose 1d10 teeth — Amputation (Easy).76–80Concussive Blow4A solid thump to the skull. Take 1 Deafened, 2 Bleeding, and 1d10 Stunned Conditions. Gain a Fatigued Condition that lasts for 1d10 days. 81–85Devastated Eye5A strike to your eye bursts it. Gain 3 Blinded, 2 Bleeding, and 1 Stunned Condition. Lose your eye — Amputation (Difficult).86–94Disfiguring Blow5The blow destroys your eye and nose. Gain 3 Bleeding, 3 Blinded, and 2 Stunned Conditions. Lose your eye and nose — Amputation (Hard).95–99Mangled Jaw5The blow shatters your jaw and destroys your tongue, sending teeth flying. Gain 4 Bleeding and 3 Stunned Conditions. Suffer a Broken Bone (Major) injury and lose your tongue and 1d10 teeth — Amputation (Hard).00 or moreShattered SkullDeathYour head is caved in and you collapse, instantly dead.84

VIIUP IN ARMSARM CRITICAL WOUNDSRollDescriptionWoundsAdditional Effects01–10 Jolted WristTDrop any item held in that hand.11–20Jarred ArmTDrop anything held in that hand, which is useless for 1d10 – Toughness Bonus Rounds (minimum 1). For this time, treat the hand as lost (see Amputated Parts).21–25Minor Cut1Your upper arm is cut. Gain a Bleeding Condition.26–40Sprain1Suffer a Torn Muscle (Minor) injury.41–45Torn Muscles1The blow slams into your forearm. Gain a Bleeding Condition and a Torn Muscle (Minor) injury.46–50Bleeding Hand1Take 1 Bleeding Condition. While suffering from that Bleeding Condition, make an Average (+20) Dexterity Test before taking Actions involving items held in that hand. If you fail, you drop the item.51–55Wrenched Arm2Drop any item held in that hand. The arm is useless for 1d10 Rounds (see Amputated Parts).56–60Gaping Wound2Gain 2 Bleeding Conditions. Until you receive Surgery to stitch the cut, any Damage to the wounded arm inflicts an additional Bleeding Condition.61–75Clean Break2Drop whatever was held in that hand and gain a Broken Bone (Minor) injury. Pass a Difficult (–10) Endurance Test or gain a Stunned Condition.76–80Ruptured Ligament2Drop items held in that hand. Suffer a Torn Muscle (Major) injury.81–85Deep Cut3Gain 2 Bleeding Conditions. Gain 1 Stunned Condition and suffer a Torn Muscle (Minor) injury. Take a Hard (–20) Endurance Test or gain the Unconscious Condition.86–90Crushed Elbow3Drop whatever was held in that hand and gain a Broken Bone (Major) injury. 91–95Damaged Artery3Gain 4 Bleeding Conditions. 96–109Dislocated Shoulder4The arm counts as lost (see Amputated Part). Gain 1 Stunned Condition until you receive Medical Attention. After initial treatment an Extended Average (+20) Heal Test reaching 6 SL resets the arm. After which tests made using the arm suffer a –10 penalty for 1d10 days.110–115Severed Finger4You lose a finger — Amputation (Average). Gain a Bleeding Condition.116–120Cleft Hand4Your hand is splayed. Lose 1 finger — Amputation (Difficult). Gain 2 Bleeding and 1 Stunned Condition. For every succeeding Round in which you don’t receive Medical Attention, lose another finger. If you lose all fingers, you lose the hand — Amputation (Difficult).121–125Mauled Bicep5The blow rips bicep from bone. You drop anything held in that hand and suffers a Torn Muscle (Major) injury and 2 Bleeding and 1 Stunned Condition.126–130Mangled Hand5You lose your hand — Amputation (Hard). Gain 2 Bleeding Conditions. Take a Hard (–20) Endurance Test or gain the Stunned and Prone Conditions.131–135Sliced Tendons5The blow leaves your arm useless — Amputation (Very Hard). Gain 3 Bleeding and 1 Stunned Condition. Pass a Hard (–20) Endurance Test or gain the Unconscious Condition.136 or moreBrutal DismembermentDeathYour arm is severed. You expire from shock and blood loss almost instantly.85

VIIAN ALTERNATIVE APPROACH TO INJURYBODY CRITICAL WOUNDSRollDescriptionWoundsAdditional Effects01–10 WindedTGain a Stunned Condition. Make an Average (+20) Endurance Test, or gain the Prone Condition. Movement is halved for 1d10 Rounds as you get your breath back.11–20‘Tis But A Scratch!1Gain 1 Bleeding Condition.21–25Gut Blow1Gain 1 Stunned Condition. Pass an Easy (+40) Endurance Test or vomit, gaining the Prone Condition.26–30Low Blow!1Make a Hard (-20) Endurance Test or gain 3 Stunned Conditions.31–35Twisted Back1Suffer a Torn Muscle (Minor) injury.36–40Bruised Ribs2All Agility-based Tests suffer a –10 penalty for 1d10 days.41–45Wrenched Collar Bone2Randomly select one arm. Drop whatever is held in that hand; the arm is useless for 1d10 Rounds (see Amputated Parts).46–50Ragged Wound2Take 2 Bleeding Conditions.51–55Cracked Ribs2The hit cracks one or more ribs. Gain a Stunned Condition. Gain a Broken Bone (Minor) injury.56–60Gaping Wound3Take 3 Bleeding Conditions. Until you receive Surgery, any Wounds you receive to the Body inflict an additional Bleeding Condition as the cut reopens.61–65Painful Cut3Gain 2 Bleeding Conditions and a Stunned Condition. Take a Hard (–20) Endurance Test or gain the Unconscious Condition as you black out from the pain. Unless you achieve 4+ SL, you also scream out in agony.66–70Arterial Damage3Gain 4 Bleeding Conditions. Until you receive Surgery, every time you receive Damage to the Body, gain 2 Bleeding Conditions.71–75Pulled Back3Your back turns to white pain as you pull a muscle. Suffer a Torn Muscle (Major) injury.76–80Fractured Hip4Gain a Stunned Condition. Take a Challenging (+0) Endurance Test or also gain the Prone Condition. Suffer a Broken Bone (Minor) injury.81–85Major Chest Wound4You take a significant wound to your chest, flensing skin from muscle and sinew. Take 4 Bleeding Conditions. Until you receive Surgery to stitch the wound together, any Wounds you receive to the Body also inflict 2 Bleeding Conditions as the tears reopen.86–90Gut Wound 4Contract a Festering Wound (see Disease and Infection) and gain 2 Bleeding Conditions.91–95Smashed Rib Cage5Gain a Stunned Condition that can only be removed through Medical Attention. Suffer a Broken Bone (Major) injury.96–110Broken Collar Bone5Gain the Unconscious Condition until you receive Medical Attention. Suffer a Broken Bone (Major) injury.111–115Internal Bleeding5Gain a Bleeding Condition that can only be removed through Surgery. Contract Blood Rot (see Disease and Infection).116 or moreTorn ApartDeathYou are hacked in two. The top half lands in a random direction, and all characters within 2 yards are showered in blood.86

VIIUP IN ARMSLEG CRITICAL WOUNDSRollDescriptionWoundsAdditional Effects01–10 Stubbed ToeTPass an Average (+20) Endurance Test or suffer –10 on Agility Tests until the end of the next turn.11–20Lost FootingTPass a Challenging (+0) Athletics Test or gain the Prone Condition.21–25Twisted Ankle1Agility Tests suffer a –10 penalty for 1d10 rounds. 26–40Minor Cut1Gain 1 Bleeding Condition.41–45Thigh Strike1A blow slams into your upper thigh. Gain a Bleeding Condition and take an Average (+20) Endurance Test or gain the Prone Condition.  46–50Sprained Ankle1Gain a Torn Muscle (Minor) injury.51–55Twisted Knee2You twist your knee too far. Agility Tests suffer a –20 penalty for 1d10 Rounds.56–60Badly Cut Toe2Gain 1 Bleeding Condition. After the encounter, make a Challenging (+0) Endurance Test. If you fail, lose 1 toe — Amputation (Average).61–65Bad Cut2Gain 2 Bleeding Conditions. Pass a Challenging (+0) Endurance Test or gain the Prone Condition.66–70Badly Twisted Knee2Gain a Torn Muscle (Major) injury.71–75Hacked Leg3Gain 1 Prone and 2 Bleeding Conditions, and suffer a Broken Bone (Minor) injury. 76–80Torn Thigh3Gain 3 Bleeding Conditions. Until you receive Surgery to stitch the cut, any associated Leg Damage you receive inflicts an additional Bleeding Condition.81–85Ruptured Tendon3Gain a Prone and Stunned Condition. Pass a Hard (–20) Endurance Test or gain the Unconscious Condition. Your leg is useless (see Amputated Parts). Suffer a Torn Muscle (Major) injury.86–90Cracked Shin4Gain a Stunned and Prone Condition. Further, suffer a Torn Muscle (Major) and Broken Bone (Minor) injury.91–95Broken Knee4You gain 1 Bleeding, 1 Prone, and 1 Stunned Condition, and a Broken Bone (Major) injury.96–105Dislocated Knee4Gain the Prone Condition. Pass a Hard (–20) Endurance Test, or gain the Stunned Condition, which is not removed until you receive Medical Attention. After this initial Medical Attention, an Extended Average (+20) Heal Test reaching 6 SL resets the knee. After this, Movement is halved and Tests made using the leg suffer a –10 penalty for 1d10 days.106–115Crushed Foot4Make an Average (+20) Endurance Test. if you fail, gain the Prone Condition and lose 1 toe, plus 1 additional toe for each SL below 0 — Amputation (Average). Gain 2 Bleeding Conditions. If you don’t receive Surgery within 1d10 days, you lose the foot.116–120Severed Foot5Your foot is severed— Amputation (Hard). You gain 3 Bleeding, 2 Stunned, and 1 Prone Condition.121–125Cut Tendon5Your leg collapses. Gain 2 Bleeding, 2 Stunned, and 1 Prone Condition and your leg never works again — Amputation (Very Hard).126 or moreShattered PelvisDeathThe blow shatters your pelvis, severing a leg. You die instantly from traumatic shock.•

THE QUARTERMASTER’S
STORE

•

‘Welcome, sir, to my humble wagon. As you can see, we have 

Little  Aldy  Summerfield,  the  Halfling  pedlar,  follows 

the  widest  of  wide-brimmed  hats,  all  the  way  from  Tilea, 

regiments  around  the  Old World  in  his  cart  filled  with 

genuine Estalian leather, of course. And you’ll be wanting a 

all  manner  of  equipment  that  experience  tells  him  the 

hat band in your regimental colours, I dare say. Yellow and 

soldiers will want. He keeps an ear out for the latest fads 

green, I see. And how about this lovely feather, genuine ostrich, 

and is quick to look for suppliers for unusual items. He 

liberated from a Sartosa privateer, I believe. In crimson? I’m 

also keeps an ear out to learn of potential new campaigns 

doing a special on bow strings, genuine cat, of course. Shhh. 

and  manoeuvres,  ensuring  he  is  always  among  soldiers 

Mr. Tiggles, only joking. And how about this? Always points 

who are far from home. He has an easy manner with the 

to the Northern Wastes. I don’t understand it, myself.

troops and offers discounts to good customers, ensuring 

they are keen to protect him from thieves and bullies.

And how about this lovely sealskin? This will keep you drier 

than dry, even up in the mountains. Genuine seal, of course, 

A SOLDIER’S BURDEN

all  the  way  from  Marienburg,  that’s  why  it’s  so  expensive. 

And, if you want the luxury of hot food for a lifestyle on the 

Soldiers,  especially  experienced  or  more  saavy  veterans, 

go,  you’ll  be  wanting  this.  No  idea  how  it  works,  but  Jem 

carry far more equipment to war than a sharp blade and 

Hollyburr swears by it. And if sir would allow, how about a 

shiny armour. Long days of marching and fraught nights 

pair of these? Keeps you cool on a hot day, and warm on a cold 

spent watching for raiders can be made far more bearable 

one, and I can do them in blue, too.’

by the addition of a few vital tools and creature comforts.

87

VIIITheodolite: A theodolite is a piece of technical equipment 

Bandoleer:  A  bandoleer  is  a  leather  belt  that  is  worn 

used for measuring angles over long distances and handy 

diagonally, with a dozen or so small containers hanging 

for surveying land. Anyone with Trade (Cartographer) can 

from  it,  usually  made  of  wood. These  containers  can  be 

use one effectively.

filled  with  a  precise  measure  of  blackpowder  to  make 

loading a handgun quicker and easier.

Some are little more than loops of metal to look through 

and  an  adjustable  angle. The  new-fangled  ones  coming 

Slow  Match:  A  slow  match  is  a  length  of  thin  rope 

out  of  Tilea  can  be  adjusted  in  three  dimensions  and 

infused  with  flammable  substances.  It  burns  slowly  and 

incorporate precision angle measurements, vernier scales, 

steadily, providing a ready spark for a matchlock weapon. 

and  telescopic  eyepieces.  They  come  with  adjustable 

It is sold by the yard, and burns at about a foot per hour.

tripods and require at least one round to set up.

Ostrich  Feather:  These  large  feathers  from  strange 

quickly,  offering  a  way  to  detonate  blackpowder  from  a 

Arabyan birds are all the rage among courtiers and now 

distance.  It  is  sold  by  the  yard  and  burns  at  about  one 

the military. They come in all sorts of colours. One might 

inch  per  second.  Standard  Quality  fuse  is  likely  to  fail 

think that a soldier with the brightest feather in their hat 

about 5% of the time over ten yards. Shoddy fuse must 

Fuse: Fuse is similar to slow match but burns much more 

might be the most likely to get their head blown off, but 

test every five yards.

soldiers  treat  this  as  a  test  of  courage.  Some  traders  try 

to pass off the feathers of any common or garden bird as 

Bow  String:  Made  from  hemp  or  similar  twine,  bow 

genuine ostrich.

strings  tend  to  break,  especially  at  crucial  moments. 

Carrying a couple of spares has got to be a good policy. 

Compass: This  rudimentary  compass  is  a  metal  needle, 

Quality ones will break less.

balanced  on  a  pin.  Scholars  debate  the  nature  of  the 

device. Some suspect it has an affinity for the very stuff 

Whetstone:  Keeping  your  blades  sharp  is  always  good 

of Chaos. Some suggest it may be attracted to a massive 

practice.  It’s  up  to  the  GM  what  happens  if  you  don’t. 

chunk of Warpstone somewhere in the Northern Wastes. 

Sharpening  services  are  common  enough  across  the 

But it is reliable and invaluable for navigation.

Empire and a knife sharpener will do the job for a couple 

of pennies per blade. If you want to do it yourself, however, 

it might be worth investing in a whetstone. 

Sealskin: A sealskin overcoat will keep the most inclement 

weather out. The fishermen of the Sea of Claws swear by 

them. The further inland you get the less likely they are 

to be made of genuine sealskin, but other furry imitations 

in  the  same  style  do  almost  as  good  a  job. They  usually 

come  with  matching  over-mittens  which  are  great  for 

keeping hands warm but make dextrous acts impossible. 

A good sealskin can give bonuses to resist cold exposure 

(see WFRP page 181).

Silk Underwear: Little luxuries help to relieve the stress 

and  drudgery  of  military  life.  One  such  luxury,  for  the 

parade ground and on campaign, is the finest Cathayan 

silk underwear. It also reduces chafing.

88

VIIIUP IN ARMSEQUIPMENTItemCostEncAvailabilityTheodolite6 GC3ExoticOstrich Feather3/–0RareCompass10/–0ScarceBandoleer6/–1CommonSlow Match2d / yard1CommonFuse3d / yard1ScarceBow String4/–0CommonWhetstone2/60CommonSealskin30/–1ScarceSilk Underwear1GC0ScarceCaptain Braun’s Multi-Stove10/–3ScarceCaptain Braun’sInsta-Boiler6/–2ScarceCaptain Braun’s Multi-Stove: An array of new-fangled 

This means that the weapon is always Unbalanced, but that 

equipment  seems  to  emerge  from  the  forges  of  Nuln 

the wielder can choose to employ Pummel or Penetrating.

every year. This heavy iron box, from the famous inventor 

Captain  Braun,  has  several  compartments  within  it 

This  choice  must  be  made  before  any  dice  are  rolled  to 

to  allow  the  cooking  of  different  meals  at  once.  It  is 

determine the success of the attack. If for some reason the 

even  claimed  that  you  can  keep  cooking  on  the  move, 

Player does not choose which Quality to use, the attack 

though it does get a bit hot. The main advantages of this 

uses  the  first  of  the  optional  Qualities  (Pummel  in  the 

contraption are that it requires much less fuel to heat, it 

case of the warhammer).

keeps its heat longer, and it considerably reduces the tell-

tale signs of fire. Some cooks swear by the invention while 

some find it a waste of effort to cart around when an open 

fire might do just as well.

new qUaLities and fLaws
Unbalanced: The weight of some weapons is concentrated 

at the head, making them inefficient for parrying. When 

this  weapon  is  used  to  oppose  an  incoming  attack,  it 

Captain  Braun’s  Insta-Boiler:  The  Insta-Boiler  looks 

suffers a –1 SL penalty to the attack.

like a tall cooking pot with a domed lid. It has a space at 

the bottom for the fire, with an enclosed, lidded chamber 

Slash  (XA):  Slash  weapons  concentrate  their  cutting 

above that. It is claimed that it can cook  stews  and the 

power in such a way as to open up gaping wounds. If you 

like  more  quickly  and  at  lower  temperatures.  Like  the 

cause Critical Damage with the weapon, the target takes 

Multi-Stove,  it  can  be  used  on  the  move  (if  you’re  very 

a Bleeding Condition in addition to any other effects of 

careful),  it  requires  less  fuel,  and  is  harder  to  spot  than 

the critical hit. You may spend X Advantage to have your 

an open fire.

opponent suffer 1 additional Bleeding Condition.

WEAPON OPTIONS

Spread  (Rating):  Weapons  with  the  Spread  quality 

fire  an  expanding  cloud  of  projectiles  which  may  strike 

The Core Rulebook provides all the weapons you need to 

several  targets.  Depending  on  the  range  to  the  target, 

begin  adventuring,  but  some  gaming  groups  may  prefer 

weapons  with  this  quality  behave  somewhat  differently. 

to  use  the  rules  provided  here  to  add  more  choice  and 

granularity to an adventurer’s armoury.

Point Blank: The shot targets a single individual. Add 

optionaL qUaLities
Some weapons have a markedly different effect depending 

(Rating) to the weapon’s Damage.

Short  Range  to  Long  Range:  The  shot  targets  a 

single individual, and the next (Rating) closest visible 

on  how  they  are  wielded.  A  warhammer,  for  example, 

creatures. No two targets may be more than (Rating) 

typically has a blunt head (allowing it to make use of the 

yards apart.

Pummel Quality) and an opposing pointed head (allowing 

Extreme  Range:  As  for  Short  to  Long  Range,  but 

it  to  make  use  of  the  Penetrating  Quality).  These  two 

reduce the weapon’s damage by (Rating) as well.

Qualities  could  not  be  used  together,  as  the  wielder  is 

either trying to make use of one head or the other.

Trip: Trip weapons are designed to hook an opponent’s 

leg  or  otherwise  drive  them  from  their  feet.  After 

Such  weapons  list  their  Qualities  in  a  particular  way. 

hitting your opponent, you may spend 2 Advantage and 

Qualities that always apply to the weapon are listed first, 

make  an  opposed  Strength/Athletics  Test.  If  you  win, 

with  a  choice  of  optional  Qualities  at  the  end.  So,  the 

your  opponent  gains  the  Prone  Condition  (if  they  are 

Qualities for the warhammer are:

mounted, they suffer a 2-yard fall and then gain the Prone 

Condition).  If  you  lose,  nothing  happens  other  than 

Unbalanced, Pummel or Penetrating

standard effects for losing an Opposed Test in combat. 

89

VIIITHE QUARTERMASTER’S STOREthe shieLd qUaLity
The Shield Quality has been adjusted to make it easier to 

use them in melee combat.

BASIC WEAPONS

Basic weapons are those that are wielded in one hand and 

require relatively little training to grasp the basic use of 

Shield  (Rating):  Any  time  you  Oppose  an  attack  you 

(though  advocates  of  these  weapons  insist  that  there  is 

benefit from additional AP equal to the Shield Rating. If 

a subtlety to their implementation, meaning they take a 

your weapon has a Shield Rating of 2 or higher you may 

lifetime to master).

also use your shield to Oppose incoming missile shots in 

your line of sight. 

Axe: Much beloved of Dwarfs, the axe is not as agile in 

the hand as a sword but the heavy cleaving head can make 

This  means  that  you  may  use  a  melee  weapon  in  your 

a mess of armour and shields.

primary  hand  to  oppose  an  opponent’s  melee  attack  at 

no penalty and gain the AP benefit of the shield in your 

Ballock Knife: The  short,  slim  blade  of  a  ballock  knife 

secondary hand even though you did not specifically use 

makes  for  a  poor  weapon,  unless  you  have  a  heavily 

the shield to oppose the attack.

armoured opponent at your mercy.

Example: Uri is surprised by some Goblins who charge into 

Club:  Clubs  are  as  often  found  as  they  are  crafted. 

close combat with him. He gains the Surprised Condition, so 

The  price  listed  indicates  that  a  purchaser  needs  such  a 

in the first round of combat his shield provides no benefit. In 

weapon in a hurry, though if a Character is in a wooded 

the next turn he is no longer surprised and his shield provides 

environment, they can source themselves a club by passing 

2 AP on top of any armour he wears.

an  Extended  Challenging  (+0)  Outdoor  Survival Test 

Uri sees off the immediate threat, but a Goblin shoots at him 

from  a  range  of  50  yds.  Uri  could  not  normally  oppose  this 

Dagger: These blades are crafted specifically for fighting. 

attack, but because he is equipped with a shield he may use that 

A broken sword may be employed as a dagger but gains 

shield to oppose it. Because it is in his secondary hand he suffers 

the  Dangerous  Flaw  (WFRP,  page  299)  if  it  lacks  an 

requiring a total of 7 SL.

a penalty of -20 (as per the Two-Weapon Fighting rules in 

integral hilt. 

WFRP page 163) or no penalty if he uses Melee (Parry) (see 

WFRP page 296) lastly because it has the Defensive Quality 

Improvised  Weapons:  Hard  and  heavy  items  that  are 

Uri benefits from +1 SL. 

90

not intended to be used as a weapon may still serve in a 

desperate moment. This entry covers such items as chair 

legs, rocks, snooker cues, and bottles.

Knife: This entry covers short, sharp blades intended for 

purposes other than fighting, such as kitchen or hunting 

knives.

Mace: The typical mace is a metal shaft with a heavy head 

shaped in flanges or spiked protrusions. Whilst it is less 

wieldy than a sword it inflicts concussive blows.

VIIIUP IN ARMSBasiC weapons taBLe

Military Pick: Crude picks are little more than a metal 

spike on the end of a stick, though better made weapons 

are fashioned from steel. They are not agile weapons but 

are well designed to crack armour.

Scimitar: Popular in the east of the Empire, Kislev and 

Araby, the scimitar has a curved blade which can inflict 

terrible cutting wounds. Its design does compromise the 

welder’s  ability  to  lunge  and  thrust,  meaning  that  even 

though scimitars are a similar length to  straight swords 

they have a shorter reach.

Sword: The sword is the weapon by which all others are 

measured.  A  quality  sword  has  a  needle  point  tip  for 

thrusting, a blade that is razor sharp to either side, and is 

balanced so that the weight is close to the hand, making 

it agile for attack and defence.

Warhammer: Warhammers come in several designs, but 

typically have a flat heavy head on one side for inflicting 

pummelling damage, and a spiked point on the other for 

penetrating armour.

91

VIIITHE QUARTERMASTER’S STOREWeaponPriceEncAvailabilityReachDamageQualities and FlawsBASICAxe10/–1CommonAverage+SB+4Hack, UnbalancedBallock Knife16/–0ScarceVery Short+SB+1Impale*, Penetrating, Precise *Club4/–0CommonAverage+SB+4Undamaging, UnbalancedDagger16/–0CommonVery Short+SB+2–Improvised WeaponN/AVariesN/AVaries+SB+1Undamaging, UnbalancedKnife8/–0CommonVery Short+SB+1UndamagingMace15/–1CommonAverage+SB+4Pummel, UnbalancedMilitary Pick15/–1ScarceAverage+SB+4Penetrating, UnbalancedScimitar1 GC1ScarceShort+SB+4Slash (1A)Sword1 GC1CommonAverage+SB+4–Warhammer1 GC1ScarceAverage+SB+4Unbalanced, Pummel or Penetrating* Impale and Precise Weapon Qualities only apply if the target is Surprised or Prone.SHIELDS

Provided  the  wielder  remains  within  1  yard  behind  the 

pavise,  it  provides  protection  to  the  wielder  from  any 

Whilst the use of Shields is covered by the Basic Weapon 

missile  attacks  that  come  from  the  stated  direction, 

rules  on  WFRP  page  294,  there  are  differences  in 

granting the Shield 5 Quality. Should an opponent engage 

implementation  requiring  more  discussion.  Although 

the wielder in melee, the pavise only provides protection 

they  have  their  own  section  here,  they  are  still  used  in 

if the attack is made from the stated direction, and only 

conjunction with the Melee (Basic) Skill.

in the first turn of combat.

Pavise: The pavise is a large shield carried by crossbowmen 

Example: Braganza the Siege Specialist has worked his way 

to  provide  shelter  on  the  battlefield  as  they  reload. 

up to the south of an enemy fortress. He sets up his pavise so 

Roughly  4  feet  tall  and  often  painted  with  the  unit’s 

that it faces the fortress. He gains the Shield 5 Quality to any 

coat of arms, the crossbowman plants the pavise on the 

attacks coming from the north, but he has no such protection to 

ground  like  a  personal  wall.  At  its  most  effective  when 

attacks coming from the south, west, or east. Should someone 

deployed  in  a  line  with  other  crossbowmen,  the  pavise 

sally  out  of  the  fortress  and  charge  towards  Braganza,  he 

provides good cover when firing at opposing troops and 

could make use of the Shield 5 Quality for the first round of 

defending  against  enemy  sorties,  the  soldier  wielding  a 

melee combat. If he is charged from the sides or rear, he cannot 

spear or sword from behind the planted pavise. 

use the Shield 5 Quality.

The pavise can be used in two different ways.

It can be employed as a large shield. This is not a good 

way to use a pavise as it is heavy construction of wood and 

leather. In this case it affords all the Qualities of a large 

shield (Shield 3,  Defensive, Undamaging), gains the Slow 

and Tiring Flaws. A pavise used in this way still has an 

Encumbrance of 4 and only does +SB+2 Damage.

It’s  intended  use  is  to  be  set  up  as  a  piece  of  portable 

cover. It costs the wielder 2 Actions to set the pavise up. 

This direction could be depending on the compass (north, 

south,  east,  or  west),  relative  to  the  wielder’s  body  (left, 

right, front, or back) or from a particular landmark (‘I set 

it up between me and the castle’).

shieLd taBLe

92

VIIIUP IN ARMSWeaponPriceEncAvailabilityReachDamageQualities and FlawsBASICShield (Buckler)18/20CommonPersonal+SB+1Shield 1, Defensive, UndamagingShield 2 GC1CommonVery Short+SB+2Shield 2, Defensive, UndamagingShield (Large)3 GC3CommonVery Short+SB+3Shield 3, Defensive, UndamagingPavise3 GC 15/–4RareN/A+SB+2Shield 5CAVALRY WEAPONS

FENCING WEAPONS

Cavalry  weapons  are  traditionally  used  when  mounted. 

Fencing weapons are much like basic weapons and may 

Lances  are  specially  designed  to  be  employed  from  the 

well  be  used  as  such  by  those  who  fail  to  grasp  their 

back  of  a  charging  Horse  (or  Demigryph).  Cavalry 

nuances. Generally in order to use a fencing weapon the 

hammers  and  sabres  tend  to  be  wielded  by  mounted 

user  must  master  a  particular  fighting  technique  that 

troops,  but  more  as  a  matter  of  tradition  than  strict 

makes best use of the weapon’s design.

necessity. 

Cavalry  Hammer:  Cavalry  hammers  are  large,  weighty 

sharpened spike. They are light in the hand with a balance 

weapons, favoured by the Knights of the White Wolf. On 

at the hilt, but short of a dramatic lunge they tend to only 

foot, they may be used with the Melee (Two-Handed) skill.

inflict small prinking injuries.

Foil: The  foil  is  a  light  sword  with  a  blade  like  a  thin 

Lance  and  Demi-Lance:  Lances  resemble  spears,  but 

Rapier: The rapier is a long thin sword. Like the foil it 

with a weighty grip designed to brace the weapon against 

comes to a fine point for thrusting, but the sharp blade 

the arm and chest of a charging knight. The demi-lance is 

retains much of the cutting power of a traditional sword.

similar, but shorter and lighter.

Sabre:  The  sabre  is  similar  to  the  scimitar,  but  a  little 

is  not  considered  a  serious  weapon  and  is  more  often 

longer and straighter. It may be used on foot with Melee 

employed  in  sporting  contests  or  duels  to  first  blood. 

(Basic), though its Slash (1A) Quality becomes Slash (2A). 

Smallswords with blunt tips and blades are often used as 

Skilled fencers can make good use of a Sabre — used with 

sport weapons, gaining the Undamaging Flaw.

Smallsword: A light version of the foil. The smallsword 

Melee (Fencing), the sabre retains its Slash (1A) Quality.

CavaLRy weapons taBLe

fenCing weapons taBLe

93

VIIITHE QUARTERMASTER’S STOREWeaponPriceEncAvailabilityReachDamageQualities and FlawsCAVALRY(2H) Cavalry Hammer3GC3ScarceLong+SB+5PummelDemi-Lance1GC2ScarceLong SB+5*Impact, ImpaleLance1GC3ScarceVery Long+SB+6*Impact, ImpaleSabre2GC1ScarceAverageSB+4Slash (1A)* Lances and Demi-Lances count as Improvised Weapons if used on a round where you have not charged.WeaponPriceEncAvailabilityReachDamageQualities and FlawsFENCINGFoil5GC1ScarceAverage+SB+3Fast, Impale, Precise, UndamagingRapier5GC1ScarceLong+SB+4Fast, ImpaleSmallsword4GC1ScarceAverage+SB+2Fast, Impale, PreciseBRAWLING WEAPONS

Locked  Gauntlet:  A  locked  gauntlet  is  formed  from 

plates  of  steel  that  encase  the  fist  and  can  be  held  shut 

Part of the appeal of Brawling Weapons is that many of 

with a screw or catch. Whilst the gauntlet may be used 

them can be constructed from suitable items in a pinch or 

as  a  Brawling  Weapon  it  is  more  commonly  employed 

broken down into seemingly innocent components. 

as a method to ensure that the wielder does not drop a 

Spiked Gauntlet: A spiked gauntlet may be purchased as 

may be purchased as part of a set of plate armour for the 

part of a set of plate armour for the arm. Add the price of 

arm. Add the price of the locked gauntlet to that of the 

the spiked gauntlet to that of the armour, but just use the 

armour.  Use  the  Encumbrance  of  the  armour  itself;  the 

Encumbrance  of  the  armour  itself;  the  spiked  gauntlet 

locked gauntlet does not add significant weight.

weapon  held  in  the  gauntleted  hand.  A  locked  gauntlet 

does not involve significant additional weight or bulk.

Boat Hook: Hooks  are  used  by  stevedores  to  help  with 

normally  be  forced  to  drop  an  item  held  in  that  hand, 

loading and securing cargoes, but they can make vicious 

they do not drop it. Instead, they suffer a -20 penalty to 

weapons if wielded with intent.

any Tests made with that item, including Melee Tests, for 

If  a  Character  equipped  with  a  locked  gauntlet  would 

however long the circumstances that would have caused 

Garrote: A garotte is a length of cord or wire intended 

them  to  drop  it  remain  in  effect  (to  a  minimum  of  one 

to be slipped around the neck and drawn tight with the 

turn).  If  something  occurs  during  this  time  that  would 

wielder’s hands. A Character in a coaching inn or urban 

cause them to drop the item again, they drop it despite 

location  could  make  a  garotte  by  passing  an  extended 

wearing a locked gauntlet.

Challenging (+0) Trade (Chandler, Engineer, Tailor, or 

Tanner) Test requiring a total of 5 SL.

Example: Jenna the Mercenary carries a sword in her right 

hand. She also has a locked gauntlet on her right hand, and 

Knuckledusters:  Brass  knuckles  can  add  considerable 

before  she  enters  combat  she  ensures  the  catch  is  secured. 

power  to  a  fighter’s  strikes,  but  a  set  of  knuckledusters 

During a fight Jenna’s opponent uses the Disarm Talent. This 

could be improvised from textiles and tools. A Character 

would normally cause Jenna to lose her sword but because of 

in an urban location can make themselves knuckledusters 

her  Locked  Gauntlet  she  keeps  hold  of  it.  She  suffers  a  -20 

by  passing  an  extended  Challenging  (+0)  Trade 

penalty to Melee Tests for a turn, after which she regains her 

(Carpenter,  Engineer,  Smith,  Tailor  or  Tanner)  Test 

correct grip and fights as normal. 

requiring a total of 10 SL.

BRawLing weapons taBLe

94

VIIIUP IN ARMSWeaponPriceEncAvailabilityReachDamageQualities and FlawsBRAWLINGSpiked Gauntlet2 GC1ScarcePersonal+SB+3Impale, UnbalancedBoat Hook6/–0CommonShort+SB+4Trip, Undamaging(2H) Garrote1/–0RarePersonal+SB+2Entangle, Slow, Unbalanced, UndamagingKnuckledusters2/60CommonPersonal+SB+2–Locked Gauntlet1 GC1ScarcePersonal+SB+2UndamagingUnarmedN/A0–Personal+SB+0UndamagingSap1/–0RarePersonal+SB+1Pummel,  Unbalanced, UndamagingLater in the combat, Jenna suffers a critical hit, Clean Break, 

Grain Flail: The common adage that peasants can beat 

which would require her to drop anything held by that arm. 

their ploughshares into weapons is overstated, but a grain 

Jenna  still  retains  her  weapon,  but  this  time  she  suffers  the 

flail in the right hands is dangerous. A grain flail consists 

-20 penalty to Melee Tests (as well as other penalties for the 

of a wooden handle connected to a heavy stick, known as 

broken  arm)  until  she  receives  medical  attention.  Whilst  in 

a swipple, by a length of chain. 

this parlous state her opponent uses the Disarm Talent again, 

and finally forces Jenna to drop her sword.

Flail and Military Flail: Flails made for the battlefield 

incorporate  metal  swipples  and  reinforcements  to  the 

Sap:  A  well-made  Sap  consists  of  a  leather  or  textile 

handle, enabling them to pack a heftier punch. 

sheath  stuffed  with  sand,  musket  balls,  iron  rods  or 

similar small heavy items. In desperation a sap could be 

PARRYING WEAPONS

constructed  from  suitable  materials  gathered  from  an 

urban  environment.  A  Character  in  a  tavern,  shop,  or 

Any one-handed weapon with the Defensive Quality can 

urban location could make themselves a Sap by passing 

be used with Melee (Parry). When using Melee (Parry), 

an  Extended  Challenging  (+0)  Trade  (Carpenter, 

a  weapon  can  Oppose  an  incoming  attack  without  the 

Engineer,  Smith,  Tailor  or  Tanner)  Test  requiring  a 

normal –20 off-hand penalty (see WFRP, page 158).

total of 15 SL.

FLAIL WEAPONS

Cloak: Some experts in fencing and parrying recommend 

keeping  a  cloak  of  heavy  fabric  handy.  When  bunched 

around  the  arm  it  can  be  used  to  distract  opponents  or 

Flails  are  powerful  weapons,  but  without  specialist 

divert their attacks. It can even be flung over an opponent 

training a user can end up striking themselves as often as 

in the hope that they will become lost in its folds. However, 

their opponents. Unskilled characters add the Dangerous 

cloaks  are  not  well  suited  for  entangling  attacks. When 

Weapon Flaw to their flails, and lose any other Weapon 

making a Test to see if an opponent becomes entangled 

Qualities the flail may have.

in a cloak, the cloak has a Strength of 25.

fLaiL weapons taBLe

paRRying weapons taBLe

95

VIIITHE QUARTERMASTER’S STOREWeaponPriceEncAvailabilityReachDamageQualities and FlawsFLAILGrain Flail10/-1CommonAverage+SB+3Distract, Imprecise, WrapFlail2GC1ScarceAverage +SB+5Distract, Wrap(2H) Military Flail3GC2RareLong+SB+6Distract, Impact, Tiring, WrapWeaponPriceEncAvailabilityReachDamageQualities and FlawsPARRYINGCloak10/–1CommonShort+SB+0Entangle, Defensive, UndamagingMain Gauche1GC0RareVery Short+SB+2DefensiveSwordbreaker1 GC 2/61ScarceShort+SB+1Defensive, Trap Blade(2H) Weighted Net1GC 10/–1RareShort+SB+0Entangle, Defensive, Shield 1, Slow, Undamaging, WrappoLeaRm weapons taBLe

Main  Gauche:  A  main  gauche  is  a  specially  designed 

dagger used in fencing. It is so called because it is typically 

POLEARMS

wielded  in  the  left  hand  by  right-handed  fighters  to 

Polearms are simply a weapon that consists, in part, of a 

complement a fencing weapon used as a primary weapon. 

pole. Many polearms are simple devices with an obvious 

A fighter with no Melee (Parrying) Skill could still use 

application,  though  others  have  intricate  heads  that 

a main gauche, though they would call it a dagger and it 

combine the attributes of several other weapons.

would lose the Defensive Quality.

Ahlspiess:  The  ahlspiess  mounts  a  long  thin  spike  on 

Swordbreaker:  These  weapons  are  designed  like  long 

a  spear  shaft,  compromising  its  ability  to  inflict  cutting 

daggers  or  sturdy  shortswords.  Their  blades  are  thicker 

wounds in order to better penetrate armour.

than  those  of  swords,  and  along  one  side  several  deep 

grooves  are  cut  into  the  blade.  This  design  greatly 

Bill: Derived from a farming tool the bill features a hooked 

compromises  the  weapon’s  ability  to  cut,  but  enables  a 

blade that can be used to snag foes or chop them down. 

skilled user to catch an opponent’s blade and hold it fast.

Weighted  Net:  A  weighted  net  is  cumbersome  and 

Empire, the halberd can be employed to similar effect as 

Halberd:  The  archetypal  weapon  of  the  forces  of  the 

clumsy,  but  capable  of  severely  impeding  an  opponent’s 

either a spear or an axe.

fighting  ability  when  used  in  a  timely  fashion.  When 

making a Test to see if an opponent becomes entangled 

Mancatcher: The  mancatcher  is  a  strange  polearm  with 

in a weighted net, the net has a Strength of 55.

a  semi-circular  head  festooned  with  short  spikes.  The 

weapon  may  catch  a  person  around  the  neck,  forcing 

them to cease struggling for fear of further injury. It is not 

often seen in the Empire, though Skaven and Hobgoblins 

regularly  employ  them.  Some  Mancatchers  come  with 

spring-loaded  mechanisms.  These  cost  4  GC  but  the 

wielder benefits from a bonus of +20 to any Strength Tests 

made to entangle someone with the weapon.

96

VIIIUP IN ARMSWeaponPriceEncAvailabilityReachDamageQualities and FlawsPOLEARM(2H) Ahlspiess2 GC2ScarceVery Long+SB+3Impale, Penetrating(2H) Bill2 GC3ScarceLong+SB+4Defensive, Hack or Trip(2H) Halberd2 GC3CommonLong+SB+4Defensive, Hack or Impale(2H) Mancatcher2 GC3RareLong+SB+2Defensive, Entangle(2H) Partizan/Glaive2 GC3ScarceLong +SB+4Defensive, Impale or Slash (2A)(2H) Pollaxe2 GC3ScarceLong+SB+4Defensive, Hack or Impale or Pummel(2H) Spear15/–2CommonVery Long+SB+4Impale(2H) Pike18/–4RareMassive+SB+4Impale(2H) Quarterstaff3/–2CommonLong+SB+4Defensive, PummelPartizan or Glaive: Partizans are spears with thick leaf-

shaped blades, whilst glaives are polearms that mount a 

TWO-HANDED WEAPONS

cleaving blade or sword blade as their head. They both act 

Two-Handed  Weapons  are  cumbersome  and  rob  the 

in the same way, sacrificing some of the reach of the spear 

wielder of the chance to use a shield or off-hand weapon. 

to inflict heavier cutting blows.

They are devastating when they land a solid blow.

Pollaxe: The pollaxe takes many forms, but the archetypal 

Bastard Sword: Also known as a hand-and-a-half sword, 

design features a head with a short spike on the top for 

the  bastard  sword  is  longer  and  heavier  than  a  typical 

thrusting,  an  axe  head  to  one  side  for  cutting,  and  a 

blade, but shorter and lighter than a zweihander. A fighter 

hammer head on the other side for pummelling.

with Melee (Basic) could use a bastard sword as a single-

Spear:  Besides  the  club,  the  spear  is  probably  the  most 

ubiquitous weapon in the Old World. Almost all species 

Great  Axe:  Rarely  used  by  the  Empire,  but  often 

and nations employ troops armed with spears, aside from 

employed by Norse tribes as a counter to heavy armour.

handed weapon, but it gains the Tiring and Slow Flaws.

the Dwarfs who tend to eschew polearms in general.

Pike:  These  very  long  heavy  spears  are  not  commonly 

being  superseded  by  various  forms  of  polearm.  Certain 

employed  outside  of  specially  trained  regiments. Tilean 

subterranean species are known to employ them.

Pick: Two-handed military picks are rarely seen, their use 

mercenaries  are  particularly  famed  for  their  mastery  of 

pikes and pike formations.

Warhammer: The two-handed warhammer is a difficult 

weapon  to  master,  but  it  is  associated  with  the  Dwarfs 

Quarterstaff: Quarterstaffs are straight lengths of wood 

and the Sigmarite cult.

about as tall as their wielder. They are as often found as 

they are crafted. The price listed indicates that a purchaser 

Zweihander and Flamberge Zweihander: The Empire’s 

needs  such  a  weapon  in  a  hurry,  though  if  a  Character 

famous  greatsword  regiments  are  armed  with  massive 

is in a wooded environment, they can source themselves 

steel  blades,  as  long  as  many  polearms.  Certain  master 

a  quarterstaff  by  passing  an  extended Challenging (+0) 

armourers go to even greater lengths in adding waves and 

Outdoor Survival Test requiring a total of 20 SL.

serrated edges to their swords. These weapons are known 

as flamberge blades, and the wounds they inflict can be 

deeper as a result of their cutting power.

two-handed weapons taBLe

97

VIIITHE QUARTERMASTER’S STOREWeaponPriceEncAvailabilityReachDamageQualities and FlawsTWO-HANDED(2H) Bastard Sword8GC3Scarce Long+SB+5Damaging, Defensive(2H) Great Axe4GC3CommonLong+SB+6Hack, Impact, Tiring(2H) Flamberge Zweihander30GC3ExoticLong+SB+5Damaging, Hack, Slash (2A)(2H) Pick9/–3CommonAverage+SB+5Damaging, Impale, Slow(2H) Warhammer3GC3CommonAverage+SB+6Damaging, Pummel, Slow(2H) Zweihander10GC3ScarceLong+SB+5Damaging, HacktRaditionaL ammUnition taBLe

AMMUNITION

Ammunition for blackpowder weapons as dealt with on 

page 102. Over the years a great many different designs 

of arrowhead have been designed, but the most common 

variants are the barbed arrow, which inflicts nasty slicing 

wounds  and  causes  additional  injury  if  not  carefully 

removed, and the bodkin arrow, which has a robust spiked 

point for punching through armour.

Sharp  sticks  and  pebbles  could  be  used  to  serve  as 

ammunition  by  an  archer  or  slinger  who  has  run  out 

of  special  ammunition.  A  Character  in  an  appropriate 

location can source themselves a pebble suitable for a sling 

by  passing  an  extended  Easy  (+40)  Outdoor  Survival 

Test  or  an  extended  Challenging  (+0)  Perception Test 

requiring a total of 5 SL.

A  Character 

in  a  wooded 

location  could  source 

themselves a straight sharp stick by passing an extended 

Challenging  (+0)  Outdoor  Survival  Test  requiring  a 

total of 10 SL. However, they ought to beware as, lacking 

the attention of a trained fletcher, improvised arrows are 

prone to fumbling.

98

VIIIUP IN ARMSWeaponPriceEncAvailabilityRangeDamageQualities and FlawsBOWArrow (12)5/–0CommonAs weapon–ImpaleBarbed Arrow (12)8/–0ScarceAs weapon–Impale, Slash (1A)Bodkin Arrow (12)8/–0ScarceAs weapon–Impale, PenetratingElf Arrow6/–0Exotic+50+1Accurate, Impale, PenetratingSharp StickN/A0CommonHalf weapon–2Dangerous, Imprecise, UndamagingCROSSBOWBolt (12)5/–0CommonAs weapon–ImpaleSLINGLead Bullet (12)4d0Common–10+1PummelPebbleN/A0Common–10–2Imprecise, UndamagingStone Bullet (12)2d0CommonAs weapon–PummelGUNPOWDER WEAPONS

Refined designs
The  first  handgun  was  a  simple  weapon  known  as  an 

Gunpowder,  also  known  as  blackpowder,  was  first 

arquebus.  It  was  a  triggerless  weapon,  requiring  a  user 

introduced  by  the  Dwarfs.  Initially,  its  use  was  limited 

to  manually  touch  a  candle  or  match  to  a  fuse  or  open 

to blasting away particularly stubborn rocks encountered 

pan of powder. A handful still remain in use among the 

by Dwarf miners. It didn’t take long for their engineers 

regiments  of  the  very  poorest  noble  houses,  but  most 

to  realise  gunpowder’s  other  applications.  Naturally,  the 

experienced soldiers would much sooner carry a warped 

same  material  which  could  send  rock  shards  flying  fast 

crossbow into battle.

enough to injure or kill careless miners had use upon the 

battlefield, and they employed prototype cannons in war 

Later  designs  made  use  of  distinct  firing  mechanisms, 

as early as the Battle of the Blackwater in –370 IC.

and  are  variously  known  as  matchlock,  flintlock,  and 

wheellock  weapons.  Matchlock  weapons  introduced  the 

These  weapons  were  unwieldy,  however,  and  required  a 

first  trigger  mechanisms,  allowing  a  lit  match  to  touch 

sizable  crew  to  operate.  Soon  smaller  versions  appeared 

a  small  pan  of  powder.  Though  even  more  susceptible 

in the hands of individual Dwarf soldiers. Though these 

to  the  weather  than  later  designs,  these  weapons  were 

early devices were relatively simple affairs — little more 

nevertheless  a  huge  leap  forward,  and  the  first  to  be 

than a miniature cannon — later versions became more 

adopted en masse in the Empire. Wheellock and flintlock 

sophisticated.

weapons  are  both  quite  similar,  making  use  of  a  spark 

rather than a lit match or cord to fire. The result is a more 

From  the  Dwarfs  the  technology  spread  to  Humans, 

reliable weapon, and both negated the need for soldiers to 

though  this  was  a  slow  process  as  the  Dwarfs  guarded 

carry a lit match around stores of powder and shot.

their  technological  secrets  jealously.  By  the  year  2000 

IC, gunpowder weapons began to appear throughout the 

Old World, mainly via the close relationship between the 

fURtheR innovations
Engineers  love  to  tinker,  and  a  great  many  variations 

Dwarfs  and  the  people  of  the  Empire,  and  from  there 

of  these  basic  principles  exist.  Combination  weapons 

the secret of black powder escaped into the wider world. 

typically involve combining a gun and some other melee 

Though Dwarf powder remains the best and most reliable 

weapon,  such  as  an  axe  or  polearm.  Engineers  have 

available, cruder — yet effective — mixtures are produced 

created  more  complicated  weapons,  many  of  them  self 

and  used  in  far  greater  quantities  by  the  forces  of  the 

loading, but so far these have proved too impractical or 

Empire and beyond. Despite the limitations and dangers 

difficult  to  maintain  to  see  widespread  adoption.  A  few 

of this new technology, its utility is undeniable.

have  also  experimented  with  smaller,  more  concealable 

weapons,  sometimes  disguised  as  canes  or  built  directly 

Regiments  of  gunners  have  become  indispensable  to 

into  prosthetics.  Most  engineers,  living  in  a  somewhat 

militaries across the Old World, and more than one Witch 

abstract world of academic pursuit, have failed to realise 

Hunter has claimed that its adoption has negated entirely 

that such weapons make perfect tools for assassins.

the need for wizards in the military. Such individuals are 

typically  challenged  to  a  duel  to  compare  the  merits  of 

A  handful  of  engineers  have  also  turned  to  the  past, 

gunpowder and magic, with the time and place chosen by 

taking inspiration from earlier, much larger designs such 

the  Celestial  College  to  ensure  a  convenient  rainstorm, 

as  the  arquebus.  The  result  has  been  various  forms  of 

and with it a favourable outcome.

hand  mortars,  designed  to  lob  explosives  or  other  large 

items great distances. Somehow, these have proven to be 

even more dangerous to the user than the already quite 

hazardous blackpowder weapons in common use.

99

VIIITHE QUARTERMASTER’S STOREpowdeR and shot
Black powder is the only form of propellant in common 

Loading a BLaCkpowdeR weapon
Blackpowder weapons in the Empire are all loaded from 

usage, though the Colleges of Magic have experimented 

the muzzle, with the powder, then the ball and a wad of 

with infusing magic into various substances in the hope 

cloth being placed inside the barrel of the weapon. These 

of creating a more powerful and reliable explosive. Some 

are then compacted into place with a ramrod designed for 

whisper  that  the  inspiration  for  this  was  derived  from 

the purpose; most blackpowder weapons have a housing 

warpstone  tainted  powder  found  in  certain  tunnels 

to hold this item when not in place. Priming powder, a 

beneath the Middle Mountains, though such rumours are 

very fine grained black powder, is then placed on the pan 

rarely repeated. The Dwarfs manufacture a form of black 

and into a small hole running inside the weapon. This is 

powder  that  burns  very  reliably,  and  so  allows  for  more 

lit by the match, flint, or other firing mechanism, and in 

consistent and precise shooting.

turn  ignites  the  main  charge  of  power  that  propels  the 

Powder  is  usually  stored  in  a  small  pouch  or  horn  and 

ball forward.

is  poured  down  the  muzzle  of  the  weapon.  Practised 

There  are  some  regional  and  regimental  variations  to 

soldiers can do this directly and expect to get the correct 

these  practices.  Wadding  material  is  used  to  ensure 

measure  of  powder,  though  most  first  pour  the  powder 

escaping  gasses  propel  the  ball  forward  with  as  much 

into a measuring device which holds exactly enough for 

force as possible, and materials as varied as cotton, felt or 

one shot.

paper  are  used. Wadding  is  typically  added  both  before 

and after the ball to ensure accurate shooting, and some 

Most shot takes the form of lead balls of various grades 

veteran  soldiers  carry  a  wadding  die  to  cut  consistently 

and  sizes,  usually  stored  in  small  oiled  bags  to  prevent 

sized wads for better accuracy. 

corrosion  that  might  foul  the  barrel  of  a  gun.  Some 

weapons  have  quite  tight  bores,  such  as  the  Hochland 

Long  Rifle,  and  are  designed  for  accurate  fire.  Most 

military  blackpowder  weapons  have  bores  a  good  deal 

wider  than  the  balls  of  shot  they  are  designed  to  fire, 

sacrificing accuracy for more rapid reloading and firing. 

Hunters prefer rifles, as there is typically time to reload 

in comfort and rapid firing is less essential than accuracy, 

especially  considering  the  price  of  shot  and  ball. While 

some do bring rifles to war, their accuracy makes them an 

extreme danger to officers and others who would rather 

not be shot at (accurately); carrying a hunting rifle into 

battle is a sure way to find yourself hanged if captured.

100

VIIIUP IN ARMSBLACKPOWDER WEAPONS

Handgun: A simple two-handed firearm, typically using 

a  wheellock  or  flintlock  design. Thousands  of  these  are 

Blunderbuss: An early form of firearm, the Blunderbuss 

employed by the Empire state troops.

features a wide bore that exchanges accuracy for ease of 

operation.  It  is  typically  loaded  with  powder,  wadding, 

Pistol:  A  smaller  blackpowder  weapon  designed  to  be 

and  many  small  projectiles  to  improve  the  chance  of 

fired with one hand, these are often used in duels or by 

scoring  a  hit.  It  may  be  loaded  with  either  Small  Shot 

cavalry soldiers such as Outriders who require one hand 

and Powder or Scrap and Powder. 

to  hold  the  reins  of  their  mount.  Wealthy  individuals 

sometimes carry a brace pistols in lieue of reloading.

Hochland  Long  Rifle:  One  of  the  legendary  and 

incredibly  precise  weapons  used  by  the  hunters  of 

Matchlock  Handgun:  An  earlier  design  of  handgun,  a 

Hochland,  such  rifles  are  incredibly  prized.  Often  used 

few  of  these  relics  persist  around  the  Empire,  and  can 

to  target  enemy  officers,  such  weapons  are  considered 

often be had quite cheaply. Before use, a user must spend 

unsporting  by  many  nobles  and  enemy  soldiers  caught 

one  action  to  light  the  fuse  on  their  weapon.  A  lit  fuse 

with when them are summarily hanged.

will burn for quite a while unless doused by rain or wind.

101

VIIITHE QUARTERMASTER’S STOREGUNPOWDER WEAPONS TABLEWeaponPriceEncAvailabilityRangeDamageQualities and FlawsBLACKPOWDER*(2H) Blunderbuss2 GC1Scarce20+8Dangerous, Reload 2(2H) Hochland Long Rifle100 GC3Exotic100+9Accurate, Precise, Reload 4(2H) Handgun4 GC2Scarce50+9Dangerous, Reload 3Pistol8 GC0Rare20+8Pistol, Reload 1(2H) Matchlock Handgun2 GC2Rare50+8Dangerous, Reload 4(2H) Matchlock Blunderbuss1 GC1Rare20+7Spread 3, Dangerous, Reload 3(2H) Arquebus5 GC3Exotic40+9Dangerous, Imprecise, Reload 5(2H) Double-barrelled Handgun7 GC3Exotic50+9Dangerous, Repeater 2, Reload 4Griffonsfoot Pistol10 GC1Exotic10+7Imprecise, Spread 5, Reload 6(2H)Gun Axe81Exotic30+9Imprecise, Dangerous, Reload 4(2H)Gun Halberd103Exotic30+9Imprecise, Dangerous, Reload 4ENGINEERING*(2H) Repeater Handgun10 GC3Rare30+9Dangerous, Reload 5, Repeater 4Repeater Pistol15 GC1Rare10+8Dangerous, Pistol, Reload 4, Repeater 4Pepperbox12 GC1Rare10+8Dangerous, Pistol, Reload 4, Repeater 4*(2H) Hand Mortar50 GC3Exotic30+7Dangerous, Imprecise, Reload 2Cane Pistol15 GC1Exotic10+8Dangerous, Imprecise, Reload 6Matchlock  Blunderbuss:  An 

earlier  design  of 

Griffonsfoot  Pistol:  This  weapon  is  best  employed 

Blunderbuss, this weapon has the same drawbacks as the 

against  a  tight  group  of  enemies.  A  single  trigger 

Matchlock Handgun, above.

discharges all six barrels, and reloading requires six shots 

and commensurate amount of powder.

Arquebus: Little  more  than  a  scaled  down  cannon,  the 

Arquebus  is  an  ancient  design  indeed,  often  eschewing 

Gun Axe: This weapon is much as one might imagine — 

such innovations as sights, a trigger, or even a handle or 

a handgun combined with an axe. It may be used as either 

grip. While early examples fired shot similar to or smaller 

a Hand Weapon or a Handgun. However, if used as an 

than  that  used  in  modern  blackpowder  weapons,  those 

axe  while  loaded,  any  critical  fumble  will  discharge  the 

surviving  into  current  use  in  the  Empire  are  typically 

weapon into the torso of the user.

larger  bore  weapons  kept  by  nobles  seeking  to  impress 

visitors.  However,  the  sheer  size  of  these  relics  renders 

Gun  Halberd:  Employing  the  same  principles  as  the 

them  useful  when  the  calibre  of  newer  designs  leaves 

Gun Axe, this weapon functions both as a halberd and as 

something to be desired.

a handgun, with the firearm’s barrel built into the haft of 

the Halberd. If used as a halberd while loaded, any critical 

Double-barrelled Handgun: If one barrel is good, surely 

fumble  will  discharge  the  weapon  into  anyone  unlucky 

two is better? About as complex as a firearm can be while 

enough to be standing directly behind the user.

still being used by the common soldier, a double-barrelled 

handgun has two barrels and two triggers. Though heavy, 

most  come  with  a  device  for  reloading  both  barrels  at 

once, allowing the user to fire more frequently.

102

VIIIUP IN ARMSBLACKPOWDER AMMUNITIONAmmunitionPriceEncAvailabilityRangeDamageQualities and FlawsBLACKPOWDER AND ENGINEERINGBullet and Powder (12)3/30CommonAs weapon+1Impale, PenetratingPaper Cartridge (12)5/-0ScarceAs weapon+1Impale, Penetrating*Aqshy-Infused Powder (12)1 GC0Exotic+10+2Impale, PenetratingPrecision Shot and Powder3/-0CommonAs weapon+1Impale, Penetrating, PreciseImprovised Shot and Powder3d0CommonHalf Weapon-Small Shot and Powder (12)3/30CommonAs Weapon-Spread +3Scrap and Powder (12)2/-0CommonHalf Weapon-1Spread +3, InfectedLarge Bullet and Powder (12)1 GC0ScarceAs Weapon+2Impale, Impact, PenetratingBomb3 GC0RarceAs Weapon+5Blast 5, Dangerous, ImpactIncendiary1 GC0ScarceAs WeaponSpecialBlast 4, DangerousGrapple2 GC1ScarceHalf Weapon+2Penetrating, Reload +2ENGINEERING WEAPONS

BLACKPOWDER 
AMMUNITION

Repeater Handgun: A Repeater Handgun uses a cunning 

method,  often  involving  clockwork  or  other  intricate 

Bullet and Powder: Fired from most Pistols, Handguns 

mechanisms,  to  place  fresh  ammunition  into  a  position 

and their variants, bullets come in a small oiled sack and 

to fire each time the weapon is discharged. Rarely are two 

are typically sold with enough powder to fire them under 

such weapons identical, though rotating mechanisms are 

normal circumstances.

a common feature.

Paper Cartridge: These are pre prepared packages of shot, 

Repeater  Pistol: Even  more  challenging  to  create  than 

powder,  and  wadding,  making  reloading  blackpowder 

a Repeater Handgun due to their smaller size, Repeater 

weapons far easier. Tests made to reload a suitable weapon 

Pistols  otherwise  share  much  in  common  with  their 

with this ammunition benefit from a +10 bonus.

larger  cousins.  Clockwork  mechanisms  are  common,  as 

are  rotating  chambers  filled  with  ammunition.  Minute 

Aqshy-Infused  Powder:  For  the  very  brave  or  foolish, 

adjustments are required constantly, and in the hands of an 

this  powder  is  created  from  sand  from  the  Nehekeran 

untrained user such weapons often misfire spectacularly.

desert,  infused  with  additional  Aqshy  by  means  known 

only to the Bright College in Altdorf. It is more explosive 

Pepperbox:  A  simpler  form  of  a  Repeater  Pistol,  a 

than normal powder but does wear down barrels far more 

Pepperbox  is  an  arrangement  of  four  preloaded  barrels 

quickly  than  its  mundane  counterpart.  Any  failed  Test 

placed in front of a single firing mechanism. Each time 

that includes either an 8 or 9 on either the 10s or units 

the  weapon  is  discharged,  it  must  be  rotated,  cranked, 

die counts as a Fumble when using this powder.

or otherwise manually prepared to fire again. This takes 

very little time compared to reloading the weapon, but it 

does mean that the user must have a second hand free to 

operate it or it loses its Repeater trait.

Hand Mortar: Looking like a short, squat Blunderbuss, 

the  Hand  Mortar  is  a  scaled  down  mortar  designed  to 

lob  bombs  and  other  large  items  in  a  desired  direction. 

It is quite dangerous to use, as loading a little too much 

powder, or mistiming the fuse on a loaded bomb, will see 

the weapon explode quite spectacularly. Any fumble while 

reloading the weapon causes it to explode. However, the 

device does open up many opportunities for those willing 

Precision  Shot  and  Powder: Expertly  prepared  powder 

to risk its use.

and  carefully  smoothed  and  rounded  bullets  can  be 

combined  to  allow  for  more  reliable,  precise  shots  with 

Cane Pistol: A small-bore pistol concealed in a walking 

any suitable Blackpowder weapon.

stick  or  cane,  this  weapon  is  somewhat  impractical,  but 

very hard to spot. Those looking for concealed weapons 

Improvised  Shot  and  Powder:  A  smidge  of  powder, 

must pass a Hard (-20) Perception Test to identify this 

possibly damp, and whatever stone looks like it might fit 

as a weapon, or a Very Hard (-30) Perception Test if they 

down the barrel of a gun. The cost is for the powder only 

are unfamiliar with blackpowder weapons.

— you are expected to find your own stone.

103

VIIITHE QUARTERMASTER’S STORESmall  Shot  and  Powder:  Often  used  for  hunting  birds 

Such ammunition cannot be loaded very far in advance, 

and other small, fast moving creatures, Small Shot is far 

as  the  ammunition’s  fuse  must  be  lit  before  it  can  be 

smaller than the barrels of most weapons, and the user is 

loaded into the Hand Mortar. When loading, you must 

expected to use a dozen or so for each load.

decide how many turns worth of fuse you have used for 

Scrap  and  Powder:  Scrap  is  a  catch-all  term  for  old 

the ammunition. 

roofing nails, used horseshoe fragments, arrow heads, and 

One turn’s worth of fuse means that it will explode at the 

other  bits  of  sharp  and  pointy  material  scavenged  from 

end of the current turn, two turns worth means it goes off 

whatever pile or rust or slag can be found. Attacks made 

at the end of your next turn, and so on. The ammunition 

using  this  shot  benefit  from  the  Infected  Creature  Trait 

goes off at that time, regardless of whether you have fired 

(WFRP, page 340).

the weapon or not. You should keep track of this, as the 

GM is not required to remind you until the moment has 

Large Bullet and Powder: Technically a small cannonball, 

arrived.

these shots are loaded into large bore weapons such as an 

Arquebus  or  Hand  Mortar.  Those  firing  such  a  device, 

Grapple:  Proposed  for  the  Imperial  Navy  for  use  in 

or  standing  within  2  yards  of  the  user,  must  make  a 

boarding actions or to foul the enemy’s enemies rigging, 

Challenging  (+0)  Endurance  Test  or  gain  a  Deafened 

Grapples  consist  of  a  heavily  wadded  hook  designed 

Condition.

to  be  fired  from  a  Hand  Mortar  only,  along  with  20  or 

so yards of rope. This may be used to attach a rope to a 

Bombs & Incendiary Ammunition: Often thrown, there 

distant point, or snare an escaping enemy, in which case 

have  been  many  attempts  to  fling  devices  loaded  with 

it  inflicts  one  Entangled  Condition  on  a  successful  hit. 

blackpowder, pitch, or tar further than can be achieved by 

Those  considering  using  this  device  to  make  a  stealthy 

hand. Such devices may be loaded into a Hand Mortar, 

entry should be reminded that it is extremely loud when 

and launched quite far indeed. 

fired.

104

VIIIUP IN ARMS•

MOUNTED
COMBAT

•

The  thunderous  roar  of  a  cavalry  charge,  the  distant 

Most  professional  armies  make  use  of  grooms,  farriers, 

twang of a mounted archer’s bowstring, or the unexpected 

and  squires  to  maintain  their  mounts,  and  a  single 

report of a pistolier’s firearm — mounted warriors play an 

person can easily care for a half dozen animals in adverse 

important role in many of the armies of the Old World 

conditions, or a dozen if they have a well-stocked stable 

and  beyond. While  the  life  of  an  adventurer  may  make 

to  hand.  For  each  day  any  required  care  is  neglected,  a 

maintaining a mount difficult, it is often worth the effort. 

mount must make a Challenging (+0) Toughness Test. 

Though  expensive,  intimidating,  trickey  to  coax  over 

Failure indicates something has gone wrong — the mount 

mountains,  and  impossible  to  drag  down  into  echoing 

may simply gain a Fatigued Condition for the first failure, 

caverns,  a  single  powerful  charge  can  send  lesser  foes 

but over time more significant problems develop. Disease 

scattering, making it all worthwhile.

outbreaks  are  common,  as  are  damaged  horseshoes  and 

Every  general  knows  that  cavalry  are  a  fearsome  foe. 

on to their riders. Of course, the beast may also choose to 

A  mounted  soldier  is  mobile,  fights  from  an  elevated 

simply escape such treatment.

infestations  of  parasites,  either  of  which  may  be  passed 

position,  and  brings  the  weight  and  sheer  presence  of 

their  steed  to  battle.  Off  the  battlefield,  mounts  can  be 

of  great  utility  as  well,  crossing  many  miles  more  than 

footsloggers  can  manage,  and  carrying  a  greater  burden 

of baggages. Though rightly vaunted, the riverways of the 

EXPANDED MOUNTED 
COMBAT RULES

Empire  do  not  reach  many  of  its  settlements.  ‘A  good 

The rules for Mounted Combat can be found on WFRP 

mount melts the miles’, as they say in Ostermark.

page  163.  The  rules  in  this  section  are  in  addition  to 

animaL CaRe
In the Old World, almost everyone has some knowledge 

of horses. Ride is a Basic Skill, so even Characters with 

no Advances in Ride can mount a horse and point it in 

the right direction.

those and may suit an adventure or party where mounted 

combat makes a frequent appearance.

what CoUnts as a moUnt?
A  mount  is  an  animal  which  has  at  least  the  Trained 

(Mount)  Trait.  Some  intelligent  creatures  without  this 

trait may allow themselves to be used as mounts, but they 

Maintaining  saddle  and  tack,  foddering  and  grooming, 

might have a hard time understanding where their rider 

and dressing a horse for work or battle, however, require 

wishes them to go.

the Animal Care Skill. Even a single Advance is enough 

to take care of a mount’s basic needs. However, if the GM 

rules that circumstances are particularly onerous, such as 

Movement and Initiative
A mount possesses both a Move and an Action. Any rider 

on  a  long  military  campaign  or  far  from  easy  access  to 

may spend their Move to direct their mount’s movement. 

good  grazing,  an  Average  (+20)  or  even  Challenging 

For simplicity’s sake, you can consider them to have the 

(+0) Animal Care Test may be required each day.

Movement  Attribute  of  their  mount  while  mounted.  A 

rider may spend an Action to direct a mount’s Action. 

105

IXTHE SKITTISH TRAIT

This  may  require  a  Test  if  the  mount  is  untrained. 

Examples  include  spurring  their  mount  onwards  to 

have  it  take  the  Running  action.  A  character  with  the 

Roughrider  talent  may  direct  a  mount’s  Action  without 

making a Test or taking an Action. 

Attacking and Defending
Any  melee  attack  from  a  rider  on  a  target  smaller  than 

their mount gains a bonus of +20 to hit.

When rolling to hit a mounted character, you can choose 

whether  to  hit  the  rider  or  the  mount.  In  melee,  you 

Mounts and Advantage
If  a  mount  does  not  have  the  Trained  (War)  Trait  it 

suffer a penalty of –10 to your Melee Test if you target the 

cannot benefit from Advantage.

rider of a mount larger than you are. You may ignore this 

penalty if you are on a similarly sized mount of your own, 

If a mount has the Trained (War) Trait and the rider has at 

or if your weapon has a reach of Long or more.

least one Advance in the appropriate Ride Skill, combine 

When  charging,  you  may  use  the  Strength  and  Size 

any misfortune, such as being wounded, that would result 

rules  of  your  mount  for  the  purposes  of  calculating  the 

in losing their Advantage, the Advantage pool is reduced 

their Advantage pools. If either the rider or mount suffer 

Damage of your Melee attacks. When riding, you suffer 

by half instead.

a penalty of –20 to the Dodge Skill unless you have the 

Trick Riding Talent.

Fear and Terror
While  many  mounts  enjoy  the  ability  to  inflict  Fear  or 

When  riding  a  mount,  you  may  only  shoot  a  ranged 

Terror  due  to  their  size,  most  are  just  as  susceptible  to 

weapon  to  the  front  if  using  a  two-handed  ranged 

these  effects.  If  a  Mount  gains  any  Broken  Conditions 

weapon, or to the front or the side in which the weapon 

(WFRP,  page  168),  they  behave  as  expected,  fleeing 

is held if using a one-handed ranged weapon. The Trick 

from  enemies  at  speed.  During  their  own  turn,  a  rider 

Riding Talent  allows  riders  to  ignore  these  restrictions, 

may  make  a  Challenging  (+0)  Ride Test  to  calm  their 

shooting in any direction they like.

mount.  A  success  removes  one  Broken  Condition  from 

Mount Actions
A mount trained for war that does not have the Skittish 

their  mount,  and  one  more  Broken  Condition  for  each 

+SL  achieved.  As  for  any  other  creature,  a  mount  with 

a Broken Condition makes a Cool Test on their turn to 

Trait (see WFRP, page 342) counts as another combatant, 

attempt to remove the Condition. For more on mounts 

and may use its own Action to attack engaged targets. 

and Conditions, see My Province for a Horse! below.

Mounts  without  the  Trained  (War)  Trait  are  far  too 

preoccupied  with  the  business  of  following  their  rider’s 

tRaining
A mount is a significant investment, and many are those 

orders to do much else without specific direction.

who  have  been  sold  an  ill-tempered  beast  unsuited  for 

the task at hand. A Challenging (+0) Animal Training 

Who gets to decide where a mount directs their attacks 

Test will inform you as to exactly what training an animal 

depends  on  what  Creature  Traits  the  mount  possesses. 

has received, and therefore what Trained Traits it has, or 

The  GM  ought  to  err  on  the  side  of  generosity  when 

the lack thereof. The difficulty of this Test may increase if 

deciding  on  where  a  Character’s  mount  directs  their 

the mount has been drugged in some way, or is otherwise 

attacks, but accidents do happen.

being influenced. 

106

IXUP IN ARMSSkittish TraitNo Skittish TraitTrained (War) TraitAttacks enemies as the rider sees fit, ignores Skittish for loud noises.Attacks enemies as the rider sees fit.No Trained (War) TraitAttacks enemies as the GM sees fit and tends not to attack enemies unless attacked first.Attacks enemies as the GM sees fit.Those  with  this  Skill  may  use  the  Animal  Training 

Smaller  creatures  ridden  over  in  this  way  may  choose 

Endeavour to teach a mount new Skills, granting it new 

to  forgo  their  opportunity  to  dodge  and  instead  make 

Trained Traits.

a  single  attack  with  a  weapon  they  are  holding  against 

the mount or its rider if they have not already acted that 

The Trained Trait defines what skills a creature has been 

Round. Unless this attack kills or disables the mount, the 

taught.  As  mentioned  previously,  most  mounts  require 

Charge continues.

attaCks on qUadRUpeds
Should you require it, you may use the following table to 

determine hit locations on a four-legged animal:

Trained (Mount) at a minimum, but the following Traits 

may be of benefit.

Trained (War)
Mounts  trained  for  war  gain  +10  WS,  and  additionally 

may  ignore  the  Skittish  Trait  for  loud  noises.  This 

includes  the  din  of  battle  or  the  crack  of  gunfire.  Note 

that a Skittish mount without this Trait does not generally 

become Broken due to simply being shouted at by a lone 

thug. If the mount is to be ridden in combat with more 

than a few other cavalry riders, Trained (War) is all but 

essential.

Trained (Magic)
The  mount  is  used  to  the  unnatural  ways  of  magic  and 

may ignore the Skittish Trait for magic.

New Trait: Trained (Shock Cavalry)
This Trait may only be taken by an animal that already has 

the Trained (War) Trait. Most cavalry, even those trained 

to cope with the rigours of war, will not charge into the 

midst of a well-armed enemy in good order. Mounts with 

this Trait have been specially trained to ignore the peril 

and dash directly into massed enemies.

When making a Charge, riders of mounts with this Trait 

may move through smaller creatures to reach their target. 

Each creature the mount tramples in this way must make 

a Challenging (+0) Dodge Test or suffer 4 + the mount’s 

Strength Bonus Damage. 

Each  creature  that  suffers  damage  in  this  way  reduces 

the mount’s remaining Movement by 2 yards. Creatures 

of  the  mount’s  size  or  larger  stop  the  mount’s  progress. 

In  either  case,  once  the  mount’s  Charge  has  ended, 

any  enemy  creature  within  melee  range  now  counts  as 

Engaged as normal, and the Charge is resolved as though 

one of those creatures was the target.

107

IXMOUNTED COMBATATTACKS ON QUADRUPEDSRollLocation01–16Head17–56Body57–67Front Left Leg68–78Front Right Leg79–89Back Left Leg90–00Back Right LegMY PROVINCE 
FOR A HORSE!

Entangled

Becoming Entangled while riding a Mount has no special 

effect.  However,  if  you  are  being  restrained  by  an  item 

which  is  anchored  or  which  someone  else  is  holding 

Many  are  the  Knights  who  found  themselves  unhorsed 

such  as  a  lasso  or  whip,  you  may  make  a  Challenging 

and forced to muck about in the mud with the common 

(+0) Ride Test. If you pass, you manage to grip on tightly 

soldiery.  Given  the  advantages  a  mounted  foe  enjoys,  it 

to  your  mount.  You  may  resolve  the  Opposed  Strength 

can  be  beneficial  indeed  to  remove  the  steed  from  the 

Test  as  though  your  size  was  the  same  as  your  mount’s 

equation. This may be done in the following ways.

(see WFRP, page 341 for the effects of this, but bigger is 

faLLing fRom a moUnt
In most cases, falling from a mount is treated as a 2-yard 

better when it comes to Opposing Strength Tests.)

If  your  mount  becomes  Entangled  but  you  do  not,  they 

fall  (WFRP,  page  166),  inflicting  1d10+6  Damage, 

Oppose this as normal. However, if they are Skittish, you 

reduced  by  the  rider’s Toughness  Bonus,  though  not  by 

must make a Challenging (+0) Ride Test or be thrown 

Armour  Points.  If  the  mount’s  size  is  Large  or  greater, 

off during their wild struggle.

increase the height fallen by 1 yard for each size step.

EXOTIC MOUNTS

The GM may allow the mount to make an Average (+20) 

Initiative Test to notice that their rider has fallen. What 

While horses are by far the most encountered mount, at 

the creature does is up to the GM and should depend on 

least in the Old World, there are exceptions. Ogres ride 

the  situation.  Generally  they  will  come  to  a  stop  a  few 

Rhinox  (see  Archives  of  the  Empire  II,  page  34),  and 

minutes later — sooner if they spot a nice bit of grazing.

even magnificent Dragons were said to be used as mounts 

Conditions While Mounted
There  are  several  considerations  when  dealing  with 

by elite High Elf regiments. Within the Empire the most 

common  and  coveted  exotic  mount  is  the  Demigryph. 

These  beasts  roam  the  deep  forests  of  the  Empire,  and 

Conditions  while  a  Character  is  mounted,  both  for  the 

though they lack the flight of a true griffon, they are far 

rider and their mount.

more  dangerous  mounts  than  even  the  largest  destrier. 

Those who ride them are known as Demigryph Knights.

Death, Unconsciousness and Prone

Killing  your  foe  or  their  horse  is  one  sure  way  to  sever 

their relationship. Riders who are dead or suffer from an 

demigRyph knights
A Demigryph Knight is the epitome of Knightly Valour. 

Unconscious  or  Prone  Condition  automatically  fall  from 

Only the greatest knights of the Empire’s foremost orders 

their  mount  unless  using  special  equipment  to  prevent 

stand a chance of taming such a beast, and many lose life 

this. Equally, if a Mount becomes Unconscious,  Prone, or 

or limb in the attempt. Even those that succeed typically 

dies, their rider is immediately thrown off and falls.

return  scarred  by  the  experience,  but  these  scars  are 

Surprise and Stun

worn as marks of the greatest pride. A Demigryph is the 

finest mount a knight could hope to ride into battle, and 

Riders who become Surprised must make an Easy (+40) 

deploying a sizable detachment of such knights is such a 

Ride Test or fall from their mount. Riders who become 

show of force that battles have ended in surrender before 

Stunned must make a Challenging (+0) Ride Test or fall. 

a single talon has had the chance to draw blood.

Riders  of  mounts  who  become  Surprised  must  make  an 

Those  Knights  that  do  achieve  the  feat  of  taming  such 

Easy (+40) Ride Test to stay in the saddle, though only if 

a  beast  are  respected  by  all,  and  those  knightly  orders 

their mount has the Skittish Trait.

that have historically fielded such knights are afforded an 

108

IXUP IN ARMSadditional measure of respect by their comrades in other 

their  own  game  quickly  become  bored,  and  those  who 

orders.  From  time  to  time,  whole  companies  of  these 

prefer their stablehands in one piece make it a point to 

warriors and their mounts are assembled for the Empire’s 

allow them the opportunity to do so at least once a month.

many  Knightly  Orders. This  is  usually  at  the  behest  of 

the Emperor in times of great need, and as such even the 

Demigryphs  require  2  Gold  Crowns  worth  of  fresh 

Demigryph Knights of orders with historic rivalries have 

meat each week. Additionally, their saddle and tack is so 

a bond of kinship and shared experience.

rarely required that it must be custom made, and so costs 

Acquiring a Demigrpyh
While even the finest horse may be had for a price, there 

double what a horse would require. However, the beast’s 

fury and presence more than makes up for this exorbitant 

cost,  and  those  Knightly  Orders  lucky  enough  to  count 

are  few  recorded  examples  of  a  Demigryph  being  sold. 

a Demigryph Knight among their number pay the costs 

The  creatures  are  no  common  animal,  and  do  not  take 

without much complaint.

well to any save those who first broke them. More than 

one who would attempt to purchase the honour of riding 

such a creature has fallen foul of their intended mount’s 

Breeding
Though  it  may  be  possible  to  raise  a  Demigryph  from 

talons, and the practice has never caught on. Demigryphs 

an  egg,  as  has  been  done  with  Griffons,  it  is  far  more 

are  found  in  the  deep  forests  of  the  Empire,  especially 

difficult to retrieve a Demigrpyh egg as the parents never 

the Reikwald, and must be faced down and broken by a 

stray  far  from  the  nest,  and  those  eggs  retrieved  have 

prospective rider. This is very often fatal, as Demigryphs 

failed to hatch. Additionally, Demigryphs do not breed in 

are fierce fighters. However, they also possess a sense of 

captivity, despite the best efforts of experts in the Kreatur 

honour  that  is  brutal  even  by  the  measure  of  the  best 

Hürde, as Altdorf ’s Demigryph pens are known. Indeed, 

Imperial soldiery.

it is difficult even to determine the sex of a Demigryph, 

and  more  than  one  overly  curious  individual  has  lost  a 

If they can be mounted and a rider stays atop a Demigryph 

limb in the attempt. Thus, all current Demigryph mounts 

for a day and a night, despite the beast’s very best attempts 

in the Empire have been caught by their rider. No doubt 

to toss them off and rip them to shreds, the beast relents. 

wealthy  individuals  without  the  martial  fortitude  to 

These  Demigryphs  gain  the  Trained  (Broken)  Trait, 

claim their own would pay handsomely for a viable egg, 

though will only permit the one who broke them to ride 

however.

them. Most Demigryphs are quick learners, if stubborn. 

Trained  adult  Demigryphs  also  have  the  traits  Trained 

(Mount, War, Magic, and Shock Cavalry).

Demigryph Mount
The  Demigryph  detailed  on  WFRP  page  318  is  an 

immature example of its kind. A creature that has spent 

Because of the difficulty involved in breaking them, there 

some time as the mount and experienced the realities of 

are  relatively  few  Demigryph  Knights  in  the  Empire. 

war has the following profile.

Even  the  Knights  Griffon  still  rely  primarily  on  more 

conventional  steeds. There  are  a  few  small  Orders,  such 

as  the  Knights  of  Taal’s  Fury  and  the  Knights  of  the 

DEMIGRYPH MOUNT

M WS BS

S

T

I

Ag Dex

Int WP Fel W

Vengeful Sun, whose entire brotherhoods can take to war 

7

55

–

55 45 40 55

–

15 45 15 34

upon these monstrous beasts.

Feed the Beast
Demigryphs  cannot  be  fed  on  grass  and  grain.  They 

require meat, and the fresher the better, and are expensive 

to maintain. Demigryphs denied the opportunity to hunt 

Traits: Armour (Rear Legs) 1, (Head, Body, and 
Forelegs) 3, Belligerent, Bestial, Night Vision, Size 
(Large), Stride, Trained (Broken, Mount, Shock 
Cavalry, War)

Combat Traits: Bite +9, Weapon (Talons) +9

Trappings: Barding (2 AP to Body, Head, Forelegs)

109

IXMOUNTED COMBAT•

HIRE ‘EM AND FIRE ‘EM 

•

Adventurers travel far and wide, and often find themselves 

Swords  for  hire  can  be  found  almost  anywhere  in  the 

in unfamiliar territory. Perhaps the locals refuse to speak 

Old  World.  From  lethal  army  veterans  who  can’t  get 

to  a  stranger  who  does  not  include  a  prayer  to Taal  in 

used to retirement, to back-alley thugs who simply enjoy 

every sentence. Perhaps they must traverse a dense forest 

cracking skulls for coin, there is always someone willing 

or mountain range but lack the experience to do so. There 

to exchange violence for money. Hired muscle is readily 

is almost always someone they can turn to for help with 

available and, depending on the standards one is willing 

the local people and geography, for a price. 

to accept, quite affordable. A street thug might be happy 

FILLING IN THE GAPS

with a silver shilling or two per day to watch the group’s 

back and rough up anyone meaning them harm, whereas 

a  respected  squad  of  experienced  Tilean  mercenaries 

Such a guide could be an experienced ranger who knows 

could  easily  demand  several  gold  crowns  a  week  for 

the  dangers  and  secret  paths  of  the  mountains,  or  they 

their protection, which can often be fearsome enough to 

could be a city-born smooth-talker who knows where the 

make even a Skaven assassin reconsider (or at least find 

best ale is brewed, or who to talk to regarding a kidnapped 

someone to blame for their failure).

noble’s  son  without  landing  the  party  in  trouble  with 

the  city  watch  —  or  even  more  dangerous  folk.  These 

The cynical adventurer is also aware that having someone 

hirelings are invaluable when the party is new to the area 

else targeted by an eldritch blast of unholy magic is much 

and needs to work out where to go, who to talk to, and 

more agreeable than being the target themselves. There is, 

what to avoid.

hiRed goons
Adventurers  often  find  themselves  in  over  their  heads. 

The pack of Beastmen they hunted turns out to be a whole 

herd, or a chance discovery makes an enemy of a fearsome 

alas, very little in the way of oversight and regulation of 

adventuring groups with a suspiciously high turnover in 

hired muscle.

hiRed BRains
Adventurers  are  often  called  many  things,  but  they  are 

cult of killers. At times like these, the hired mercenary is 

rarely acknowledged as smart. There’s nothing clever about 

a  lifesaver.  Even  if  the  party  already  possesses  a  skilled 

wandering off into dark places and risking terrible death. 

warrior  or  two,  the  addition  of  another  swordarm  can 

When  faced  with  mysteries  of  a  cerebral  nature,  many 

greatly increase everyone’s tactical options, as well as their 

otherwise talented adventurers are at a loss. Fortunately, 

overall chances of survival. 

the Empire has many fine minds looking for work.

A  party  of  adventurers  with  a  veteran  soldier  or  two  at 

Hiring someone with specialised knowledge is generally 

their  side  can  take  on  terrible  threats  and  reap  greater 

much  more  expensive  than  hiring  someone  for  general 

rewards. They can sleep soundly at night knowing that a 

labour.  Becoming  a  learned  scholar  is  an  expensive 

hired bodyguard remains alert for threats.

undertaking, which gives those who graduate a very acute 

sense  of  their  own  value,  and  they  charge  appropriately 

high fees for their services. 

110

XLegal  professionals,  for  example,  charge  what  most 

adventurers  would  consider  vast  amounts  of  gold  for 

disadvantages
While  hirelings  are  obviously  extremely  useful  to  any 

anything more complicated than drafting a simple legal 

adventuring party, relying on hired help has its drawbacks. 

document,  with  professional  translators  and  historians 

Aside from the fact that a rich group who pays hirelings 

demanding not much less. Graduates of the Colleges of 

to do all the work quickly becomes a poor group with a 

Magic are a frivolity affordable only for the aristocracy.

reputation for stealing the hard-won glory of the hirelings 

that  took  care  of  business,  there  are  several  pertinent 

A more economical, although also less reliable, alternative 

disadvantages to be aware of.

is to hire a student. The universities of the Empire charge 

a  great  deal  of  money,  and  many  students  jump  at  the 

chance of help to pay their debts. The Colleges of Magic 

We Can Afford It, but Can We Afford It?
Whether  a  hireling  is  carrying  a  noble’s  spare  clothing 

even  encourage  students  to  engage  in  ‘freelance’  work 

or a mercenary warrior, the majority are doing so for one 

(closely monitored in case they fall prey to temptation, of 

reason: payment. Even the lowest servant requires a few 

course) to develop a better understanding of their skills 

shillings a week to feed and clothe themselves and hiring 

and  abilities.  They  are  considerably  less  knowledgeable 

particularly skilled people can cost several gold crowns or 

than their teachers or graduates, but very often they know 

more a week. 

enough to help the adventurers who hire them. When an 

apprentice wizard solves a magical cipher that protected 

If  their  wages  are  delayed  or  less  than  agreed,  whether 

a priceless treasure hoard, it matters not to the employer 

by  unfortunate  setback  or  deliberate  penny-pinching, 

if their pronunciation of the ancient glyphs was a bit off.

they are well within their rights to leave and find more 

foRtUnateLy, yoUR
RepUtation pReCedes yoU
Religious fervour is a cornerstone of life in the Empire. 

reliable  employers.  If  they  feel  particularly  slighted  by 

their employer’s inability to pay on time, many servants 

feel  justified  in  absconding  with  valuable  items  as 

compensation!  It  is  therefore  essential  before  hiring  to 

The  fearful  and  faithful  alike  flock  to  alleged  prophets 

ensure that the long-term costs can be covered.

and merchants of doom, answering calls to take up arms 

and drive this or that evil from their communities. New 

omens, heroes, and villains are declared every day.

If the party has been particularly successful in persecuting 

the forces of darkness, it is very possible that some of the 

common folk see them as favoured by Sigmar or the other 

gods  and  swear  fealty  or  service  to  them. This  can  be  a 

very useful source of help; the zealous are often already 

inured to many of the horrors the adventurers must face, 

and their faith can be a powerful beacon for the group in 

dire situations. 

More frugal adventurers might also note that fanatics are 

used to enduring hardship for little or no monetary gain. 

This makes them very cheap hired help, but are inclined 

to  keep  it  to  themselves  lest  said  help  denounce  their 

faithless penny-pinching and turn on the party.

111

XHIRE ‘EM — FIRE ‘EMhireling’s  skills  and  character?  Does  the  hireling  have 

reason  to  doubt  the  party’s  promises  of  payment?  A 

group of adventurers that does not honour their contracts 

quickly finds that hirelings demand payment in advance, 

if  they  agree  to  employment  at  all,  and  such  a  poor 

reputation will travel quickly through the business world, 

as merchants raise prices or demand collateral for the risk 

of  doing  business  with  such  nefarious  folk.  Employees, 

rightly or wrongly, are often seen as an extension of the 

employer. What a hireling does, whether they are currently 

‘on  the  job’,  they  do  in  the  party’s  name.  If  a  hireling 

spends their free time carousing and getting thrown out 

of pubs, or accusing the village priest of cheating at dice, 

for  example,  it  will  be  the  party  employing  them  that 

must deal with the consequences.

Unfortunately, Your Reputation Precedes You
Hirelings are people too. They have beliefs, motives, and 

lines  they  won’t  cross.  This  can  present  a  problem  for 

For  many  adventurers,  particularly  those  just  starting 

adventurers  with  any  sort  of  reputation.  If  the  party’s 

out or who do not count a noble scion or wealthy trader 

reputation is tarnished, there may be few people willing 

among  their  number,  this  can  make  hirelings  far  too 

to work for them at all. In such cases the adventurers may 

expensive an investment. In order to afford the services of 

find that the only help they can hire has a reputation as 

a hireling for more than a week or two, such unfortunates 

bad,  or  even  worse,  than  theirs!  Would  you  really  trust 

must work hard or get a lucky break to amass enough coin 

Hrolf the Norscan Strangler to keep watch over you and 

or goods to barter. A sudden setback, such as paying for 

your comrades while you sleep?

a physician to save the life of a party member, could wipe 

out the savings of new adventurers.

A  good  reputation  comes  with  its  own  drawbacks. The 

‘Free to those who can afford it. 

Very expensive for those who can’t!’

party  is  more  likely  to  attract  decent,  Sigmar-fearing 

folk,  but  what  if  the  party  must  infiltrate  a  cult  of  the 

Dark Gods? A fanatical hireling would abhor the notion, 

— Vyvian Weisschnell, Second Cousin to Baron 

while  some  would  run  straight  for  the  local  priest  or 

Lundgren of Schlügelborscht, on hired help

witch  hunter  and  have  them  all  burned  as  heretics. 

LiaBiLity and ResponsiBiLity
Employing  a  hireling  is  like  any  contract:  the  hireling 

In  the  Empire,  very  few  bother  with  the  distinction 

between  pretending  at  heresy  for  a  long-term  noble 

cause  and  being  a  genuine  heretic.  Worse  yet,  heroism 

agrees  to  do  a  particular  task,  and  the  employer  agrees 

attracts  enemies  that  hide  in  plain  sight.  What  if  the 

to  pay  them  a  certain  amount  for  it,  until  the  task  is 

new porter the party just hired is part of a cult the group 

complete, the contract expires, or any number of possible 

has  antagonised? They  may  appear  loyal  and  helpful  on 

circumstances  are  reached. This  is  seen  as  just  and  fair, 

the surface for weeks or months, all the while gathering 

and the foundation of good business across the Empire. 

information on the party’s weaknesses and movements to 

But there is never a shortage of con artists and lowlifes 

report back to their masters, manipulating evidence to set 

attempting  to  find  contractual  loopholes  to  swindle 

them  up  for  a  terrible  crime,  or  simply  waiting  for  the 

the  other  party.  Is  there  someone  who  can  vouch  for  a 

perfect moment to slit the party’s throats as they sleep…

112

HIRELING PROFILES

Use these rules to flesh out a hireling NPC.

SEASONED MERCENARY — SILVER 3

M WS BS S

T

I

Ag Dex

Int WP Fel W

Pick a profile relating to the sort of Hireling you are 

4

46 41 36 41 36 31 31 31 41 36 15

0

0

0

0

0

dealing with. 

Roll once on the Hireling Template table to see if 

a template should be applied to the Hireling. If so, 

apply it.

Roll once on the Physical Quirks table.

Roll once on the Work Ethic table.

Roll once on the Personality Quirks table.

This  process  helps  demonstrate  that  Hirelings  are  not 

simple  tools  to  be  employed  without  complication,  but 

individuals with their own stories and habits. 

Consider 

the 

circumstances 

through  which 

the 

adventurers  hired  the  Hireling  and  adjust  the  results 

as  appropriate.  A  Lawyer  approached  in  their  office  is 

unlikely to run off with their potential employers’ money, 

Traits: Armour 3, Ranged (Crossbow) +9 (60), Weapon 
(Dagger) +5, Weapon (Sword) +7

Skills: Athletics 41, Charm 41, Climb 46, Consume 
Alcohol 46, Cool 54, Dodge 41, Endurance 51, 
Evaluate 34, Gamble 36, Gossip 41, Haggle 39, 
Language (Battle) 41, Leadership 41, Melee (Basic 61, 
Polearm 51), Play (Drum) 41, Ranged (Crossbow) 46, 
Outdoor Survival 36

Talents: Doomed, Drilled, Marksman, Very Strong, 
Sharp, Suave, Warrior Born

Trappings: Clothing, Sword, Dagger, Pouch, Uniform, 
Breastplate, Helmet, either a Halberd or a Crossbow 
and 10 Bolts 

LOCAL SCOUT — SILVER 1

M WS BS S

T

I

Ag Dex

Int WP Fel W

but may be a con artist in other ways. The Characters may 

4

31 41 31 41 46 46 31 36 31 31 14

be able to hunt down a reliable Hireling through asking 

round about their skills and reputation. If the GM feels 

the Characters have suitably vetted their candidates, then 

some  or  all  of  the  random  elements  might  be  removed 

from the process.

Traits: Armour 2, Ranged (Bow) +6 (50), Weapon 
(Dagger) +5, Weapon (Sword) +7

Skills: Animal Care 41, Athletics 51, Charm 36, 
Charm Animal 41, Climb 41, Cool 34, Endurance 51, 
Evaluate 39, Gossip 41, Haggle 34, Lore (Local) 46, 
Melee (Basic) 46, Navigation 41, Outdoor Survival 46, 
Perception 56, Ranged (Bow) 46, Ride (Horse) 51, 
Stealth (Rural) 51, Track 51

Talents: Doomed, Lightning Reflexes, Nose for 
Trouble, Orientation, Rover, Savvy, Sharp

Trappings: Cloak, Clothing, Dagger, Sword, Bow and 
10 Arrows, Mail Shirt, Map, Pouch, Riding Horse with 
Saddle and Tack, Saddlebags with 2 weeks’ Rations, 
Sling Bag containing Tinderbox and Blanket

113

XHIRE ‘EM — FIRE ‘EM 
 
 
 
 
 
LAWYER — SILVER 3

DOKTOR — SILVER 5

M WS BS S

T

I

Ag Dex

Int WP Fel W

M WS BS S

T

I

Ag Dex

Int WP Fel W

4

31 31 31 36 41 31 41 46 36 36 12

4

31 31 31 31 31 36 41 41 46 36 13

Traits: Weapon (Dagger) +5

Traits: Weapon (Dagger) +5

Skills: Bribery 41, Charm 46, Consume Alcohol 
46, Cool 39, Endurance 46, Evaluate 51, Gossip 46, 
Haggle 49, Intuition 46, Melee (Basic) 34, Language 
(Classical 56, Guilder 51), Lore (Law 56, Theology 56), 
Perception 51, Research 56, Secret Signs 49

Skills: Bribery 46, Charm 46, Cool 59, Drive 46, 
Endurance 41, Evaluate 44, Gossip 46, Haggle 44, 
Heal 51, Language (Guilder) 46, Lore (Anatomy 46, 
Medicine 46), Melee (Basic) 36, Perception 41, Sleight 
of Hand 51, Trade (Barber) 46

Talents: Blather, Coolheaded, Doomed, Read/Write, 
Savvy, Suave

Talents: Doomed, Field Dressing, Read/Write, 
Resistance (Disease), Savvy, Suave, Surgery

Trappings: Book (Law), Clothing, Court Robes, 
Dagger, Guild License, Magnifying Glass, Pouch, Sling 
Bag containing Writing Kit and 5 Pieces of Parchment

Trappings: Bandages, Book (Medicine), Clothing, 
Dagger, Healing Draught, Guild License, Pouch, Sling 
Bag containing Trade Tools (Medicine), Writing Kit 
and 5 Pieces of Parchment

PORTER — SILVER 1

SCRIBE — SILVER 2

M WS BS S

T

I Ag Dex Int WP Fel W

M WS BS S

T

I Ag Dex Int WP Fel W

4 41 31 41 46 41 31 31 31 31 36 15

4

31 31 31 41 31 31 36 46 41 36 15

Traits: Armour 1, Weapon (Sword) +8

Traits: Weapon (Dagger) +5

Skills: Athletics 41, Bribery 41, Charm 41, Climb 51, 
Consume Alcohol 56, Cool 34, Dodge 41, Endurance 
56, Entertain (Storytelling) 36, Evaluate 34, Gamble 36, 
Gossip 46, Haggle 39, Intimidate 46, Melee (Basic) 56, 
Perception 46, Stealth 36, Swim 51

Talents: Doomed, Strong Back, Sturdy, Suave, 
Tenacious, Very Resilient, Very Strong

Trappings: Sword, Leather Gloves, Guild License, 
Leather Jerkin, Pipe and Tobacco, Porter’s Cap. Cloak, 
Clothing, Dagger, Pouch, Sling Bag containing a Flask 
of Spirits

Skills: Animal Care 51, Art (Writing) 41, Charm 41, 
Consume Alcohol 51, Cool 44, Entertain (Storytelling) 
46, Evaluate 49, Gamble 56, Gossip 46, Haggle 49, 
Intuition 36, Language (GM’s Choice 51, Classical 
56), Lore (History 56, Law 51), Melee (Basic) 36, 
Perception 36, Research 56, Trade (Scribe) 41

Talents: Artistic, Bookish, Carouser, Doomed, Read/
Write, Savvy, Suave

Trappings: Book, Clothing, Dagger, Pouch, Sling Bag 
containing Writing Kit and 5 Pieces of Parchment

114

XUP IN ARMSVETERAN OF ADVENTURES

M WS BS

S

T

I

Ag Dex

Int WP Fel

M WS BS

–

+5

–

+5

+5 +10

–

–

–

–

–

–

+5

–

REFORMED ROGUE

S

–

T

–

I

–

Ag Dex

Int WP Fel

+10 +10

–

–

+5

Skills: Cool +10, Dodge +10, Melee (Basic or Polearm) 
+10

Skills: Perception +10, Sleight of Hand +10, Stealth 
(Urban) +10

Talents: Combat Reflexes

Talents: Criminal, Etiquette (Criminals)

Trappings: Leather Armour, Hand Weapon or Spear, 
Shield

Trappings: 10 yards of Rope, Set of Lockpicks, Mask

INFIRM

OLD SALT

M WS BS

S

T

I

Ag Dex

Int WP Fel

M WS BS

S

T

–1 –10 –10 –5

–5 –10 –10 –10

–

–

–

–

–

–

+10 +10

I

–

Ag Dex

Int WP Fel

+10

–

–

–

–

Skills: Reduce all Skills by 10

Skills: Consume Alcohol +10, Row +10, Sail +10, Swim 
+10

BRIGHT SPARK

DIAMOND IN THE ROUGH

M WS BS

–

–

–

S

–

T

–

I Ag Dex Int WP Fel

+10

–

–

+10 +5

+5

Skills: Intuition +10, Lore (Local) +10, Perception +10

Trappings: Mail Armour, Hand Weapon

M WS BS

S

–

+5

+5

+5

T

–

I

Ag Dex

Int WP Fel

+5

+5

+5

–

+5

+5

Talents: Generate an additional 3 random starting 
Talents as if for a new Character.

115

XHIRE ‘EM — FIRE ‘EMHIRELING TEMPLATES Hirelings vary from one another in terms of their abilities. Roll on the Templates table to find out if the Hireling has bonuses or penalties that modify their basic profile. Hirelings may not present their future employers with any expectations about being particularly skilled or infirm, though the GM may well give appropriate clues if Characters subject their Hirelings to interviews.D100 ROLLTEMPLATE00–25The Hireling performs as expected, do not apply a template.26–40The Hireling has experience adventuring and knows how to look after themselves. Apply the Veteran of Adventures template.41–55The Hireling is regrettably infirm, feeble, or otherwise compromised, though they will not admit this to potential employers. Apply the Infirm template. 56–69The Hireling has an unusual degree of wit to them. Apply the Bright Spark template.70–85The Hireling has a criminal past. Apply the Reformed Rogue template.86–95The Hireling has spent a significant time at sea. Apply the Old Salt template.96–99The Hireling is untested but has great potential. Apply the Diamond in the Rough template.116

XUP IN ARMSPHYSICAL QUIRKSHirelings tend to have been about a bit and experienced some of the rougher aspects of life. Roll on the Physical Quirks table to see what marks life has left on the Hireling. Hireling suffer the penalties of any amputations as described on WFRP page 180.D100QUIRK01–06The Hireling looks unremarkable.07–08Missing a hand and wears a Hook (see WFRP page 308).09–10Missing the lower part of one of their legs and wears a False Leg (see WFRP page 308).11–12Missing an eye. 13The Hireling is slowly developing a mutation. The change is slow and subtle, but in 1d10 months it will manifest properly. 14–19Very short, stout, and hairy. Occasionally mistaken for a Dwarf.20–25Rather tall, lean, and possessed of mysterious airs and graces. Occasionally mistaken for an Elf.26–29Rather slobbery. Finds it hard to talk at length without spraying droplets of spit on those nearby.30–32High and grating tone of voice.33–38Striking good looks.39–44Smirks and sniggers all the time. Being told to be serious makes it worse.45–55The fact that this person withstood the ravages of a pox is evident by their skin.56–60Terrible body odour that seems to defy all attempts to mask or eradicate it.61–65Tall and hulking, though their apparent size does not mean they are necessarily strong and tough.66–70Missing more than half of their teeth, and their remaining teeth are rather discoloured and precarious.71–75Always looks and sounds furious despite their genuine mood.76–79Appears young despite being old, or elderly despite being young.80–83Tattoo of a magical sigil on their arm. Refuses to discuss how or why they got it.84–89Magnificent moustache, big bushy beard, or complex colourful hairdo.90–94Wears a lot of cheap jewellery.95–99Huge brown wen on their nose or cheek.00Bears an uncanny resemblance to someone the Characters know.WORK ETHICMost Hirelings have a sensible attitude to work, realising that continued employment relies on their being able to foster a good reputation for reliable work, and remaining on good terms with their employers. That said, dealing with a few caveats and awkward practices is the risk a potential employer takes when arranging a contract with a Hireling. Roll on the Work Ethic table to see how the Hireling approaches their job.D100QUIRK01–25The Hireling gives an honest day’s work for an honest day’s pay.26–30Will only work locally; does not wish to travel anywhere.31–36If the employer sets an expectation that work will be ongoing but then stops using the hireling, the hireling will bitterly resent it and make efforts to slander the employer’s reputation.37–40Ambitious and diligent. Always performs well and looks for opportunities to take on extra duties and develop themselves.41–55Resents being asked to work on Marktags and Festags. Demands double pay if expected to work on those days.56–60The Hireling is a con artist who demands money up front. Whether or not they are given money they won’t be around when an actual job needs doing.61–72The Hireling has a somewhat inflated sense of their worth and demands 10% more than a Hireling of their sort usually charges.73–85The Hireling is a dreary jobsworth. Unless the employer passes a Hard (-20) Leadership Test when giving instructions the Hireling looks to cut corners at every opportunity.86–89Terrible bureaucrat and a stickler for process. Wants everything in writing before they will agree to undertake a job, even if they cannot read.90–95Feels that work, whilst important, is of lower priority than life experience, and may well abandon their duties if provided with a sufficient distraction.96–00As soon as the employer’s eye is elsewhere they stop working.117

XHIRE ‘EM — FIRE ‘EMPERSONALITY QUIRKSHirelings can be a little eccentric and difficult, though some of them are easy going and a pleasure to work with. Roll on the Personality Quirks table to get a measure of the Hireling’s character.D100QUIRK01–09The Hireling does not have any unusual habits and possesses a balanced personality. 10–13Constantly seeking regard by taking credit for all successful ventures and blaming others for their failures.14–19Happy and lively on initial meeting, miserable and critical thereafter.20–25Compulsion to commit petty theft. If accused of a crime they immediately blame it on the nearest Halfling.26–29Pious religious beliefs; obeys the strictures of their preferred deity with more sanctimonious diligence than could be expected of a High Priest. Will not remain in the employ of someone who has values at odds with their religion.30–32No respect for personal space.33–38Never stops talking about Middenball. Guess who the Southside Slammers have signed up for next season. Only Wolfgardt Hoffstedder! What’ll that do to their famous first four offensive formations, eh? Talk about adding some extra oomph! The Engineers’ coach is going to be up late nights thinking how to counter that won’t he? Middenball, Middenball, Middenball!39–44Obsessed with the history of warfare. Reads about conflicts and generals and battlefields whenever they get a chance. Knows the names for 16 different designs of halberd. Believes themself to be a strategic genius. Is about as tactically minded as a turnip.45–50Family person. Misses their kids. Spends quiet moments gazing wistfully at a portrait of their spouse they keep in a silver locket.51–55Suffers from a Mental Corruption, see WFRP page 185.56–60Miserly. Does not care too much about receiving a good wage but cannot bear to part with any money they earn.61–65Very reliable unless they suffer from a Broken Condition for any reason. They deal with the trauma by taking up a Weirdroot habit they previously had under control.66–70Rather intellectually pretentious. Quotes Leonardo di Miragliano and Jacopo Tarradasch at every opportunity. Suggests adventuring to foreign lands not because they think there is money in it, but because they have heard wonderful things about the authentic local cuisine.71–75Loud opinions on a fashionable social issue about which they are passionate.76–79Carries a cheap lute that does not stay in tune. Whips it out for a ‘sing-song’ at any opportunity.80–83Pathological liar who is terrified of admitting any wrongdoing and looks down on everyone.84–89Incapable of taking a position of leadership, but obsessed with providing useless advice to those who do take positions of leadership.90–86Enthusiastic and creative with loads of ideas. Whilst their ideas are not always constructive some of them are, and they are pleased to see them taken up by their comrades with no desire for extra credit or reward.87–92Impious and proud of it. Does not respect the spiritual beliefs of others and subjects any talk of principles or values to cynical disdain. 93–96Cheeky and mocking of everyone around them. Thinks people who are offended need to grow a thicker skin. However, they are possessed of very thin skin in their own turn, and find even gentle mockery of their own person to be out of line.97–00Unfazed by danger and hardship. Seen it all before and possesses the thousand-yard stare to prove it.•

ARTILLERY AND DAMAGE
TO STRUCTURES 

•

Most  WFRP  scenarios  do  not  favour  the  use  of  large 

military  manoeuvres  or  devastating  siege  weapons.  It  is 

ENC and Encumbrance Limit
The ENC of structures refers to how many encumbrance 

impractical to drag cannons into dungeons or carry out 

points  they  apply  when  lifted. The  Encumbrance  Limit 

careful  subterfuge  against  the  hidden  agents  of  Chaos 

refers to how many encumbrance points the structure can 

when  you  are  the  only  folk  in  town  with  a  Helblaster 

bear before it is too crammed or structurally compromised. 

Volley  Gun.  Major  military  encounters  are  difficult  to 

This limits the amount of artillery that can be placed on a 

describe  in  round-by-round  detail,  and  we  recommend 

structure. It is up to the GM to decide whether planned 

that if the Characters are embroiled in a wider military 

artillery  placements  are  sensible.  For  example,  a  barge 

confrontation, that the mass combat rules from Archives 

could potentially carry a great deal of artillery, but these 

of the Empire Volume 2 are used.

would mostly be stowed in the hold and  of  no  use  in  a 

However,  there  may  be  times  when  the  Characters 

are  facing  an  emplacement  guarded  with  fortification 

or  artillery,  or  where  they  are  in  charge  of  such  an 

emplacement themselves.

SAMPLE STRUCTURES

battle.

Cover Penalty
We  assume  that  when  people  are  shooting  from  a 

defensive  position,  they  are  actively  using  it  to  provide 

cover,  crouching  behind  the  gunwales  of  a  boat  or 

ducking between battlements on a castle rampart. Unless 

targets on a structure have a Surprised Condition or are 

Structures in this context refer to anything that is too large 

behaving in a way that would not grant them cover, then 

and tough to be destroyed by extended Strength Tests as 

the Difficulty listed is the default that an assailant would 

described in the WFRP Core Rulebook. Strength Tests 

suffer  from  when  trying  to  shoot  the  Character.  Other 

are a good way to determine if a Character can break down 

modifiers, such as range or size of target, would affect this 

a door or smash a chair to pieces. However, reinforced iron 

Difficulty at the GM’s discretion.

gates and castle walls are obviously designed to withstand 

more punishment than a few determined shoulder barges.

The rules for damaging structures are similar in many ways 

to those for damaging vehicles and boats. An overview of 

some  archetypal  vehicles  and  boats  is  given  below. The 

rules for damaging structures could be used to determine 

damage to vehicles, but it would be better to use the rules 

from the Enemy in Shadows Companion (for damaging 

vehicles)  and  the  Death  on  the  Reik  Companion  (for 

damaging boats). 

118

XICommon stRUCtURes taBLe

Carts: Small, two-wheeled vehicles such as donkey carts, 

wide enough for three people, although they require only 

chariots, and gigs. Passenger carts include a seat for up to 

a single driver. Some wagons are even specially designed 

two people, and those that carry goods have a single seat 

to  mount  weapons  or  provide  a  platform  for  troops  to 

and an open bed for cargo. 

fight from and, at the GMs discretion, these war wagons 

Coaches: A  coach  is  an  enclosed,  four-wheeled  vehicle, 

drawn  by  2–6  horses.  Coaches  are  preferred  by  the 

Rowboat:  Rowboats  refer  to  small  vessels  of  up  to 

wealthy for long-distance travel, and the Empire is home 

10  yards  in  length.  Smaller  Reikland  fishing  vessels  or 

to several coaching companies that run regular services.

Marienburg canal boats are examples of such vessels.

may provide an improved cover penalty.

Wagons: Wagons  are  large,  open  vehicles  built  to  carry 

Typical Barges: Barges on the Reik are typically about 20 

any kind of cargo. Depending on size, they are drawn by 

yards in length, designed to carry large cargoes for their 

two or more horses or oxen. There is a bench at the front 

size and are powered by both sails and oars.

119

XIARTILLERY AND DAMAGE TO STRUCTURESStructure ENCEncumbrance LimitToughnessWoundsCover PenaltyVEHICLESCart10302510Challenging (+0)Coach100804550Difficult (-10)Light Wagon30305035Difficult (-10)Medium Wagon50605060Hard (-20)Heavy Wagon75805095Hard (-20)RIVERBOATSRowboat25603510Challenging (+0)Typical Barge1003004560Difficult (-10)Patrol Boat1305060120Hard (-20)STRUCTURESWattle Fence *N/AN/A2510Challenging (+0)Sturdy Wooden Door5N/A5010N/AWooden Mantlet5N/A5015Difficult (-10)Timber Frame Wall*N/A304020Earthwork *N/A605030Difficult (-10)Dry Stone Wall *N/A306020Difficult (-10)Stake Palisade *N/A605030Hard (-20)Stone Wall *N/A1006050Hard (-20)Portcullis Gate *N/AN/A7020N/ACastle Wall *N/A15065100Very Hard (-30)Dwarf Fort Wall *N/A20080150Very Hard (-30)* The profile listed is for a 5 yard stretch of such a structure.Patrol  Boats:  River  Warden  patrols  use  fast  vessels 

Stone Wall: A  stone  wall  refers  to  those  walls  that  use 

powered by banks of oars for fast pursuit, or sails for more 

fitted  stones,  mortar,  or  both  to  produce  a  permanent 

leisurely  patrolling. They  are  around  25  yards  in  length 

structure,  more  stable  than  a  dry  stone  wall  but  not  as 

and built to withstand a lot of punishment.

thick  as  a  castle  wall.  A  fortified  coaching  inn  would 

usually be surrounded by a stone wall.

Wattle  Fence:  Wattle  fences  are  woven  from  thin 

branches  of  willow. They  are  easy  to  make  and  durable 

Castle Wall: Castle  walls  tend  to  be  made  of  two  faces 

if  well  made.  However,  they  better  suited  for  animal 

of close fitted, mortared stone between which is a cavity 

enclosure than fortification. They are still used for cover 

stuffed full of a mix of gravel, mortar, or oyster shells.

by those in a hurry or without better alternatives.

Dwarf  Fort  Wall:  Dwarfs  tend  to  build  their  fortress 

Sturdy  Wooden  Door:  The  doors  typically  attached  to 

walls from massive blocks of stone, shaped to fit together 

residential dwellings are destroyed utterly when hit by a 

seamlessly. They are as thick, if not thicker, than the walls 

serious weapon. However, these doors refer to the thick 

of Human castles, but are solid stone throughout and far 

doors  reinforced  with  bands  of  iron  that  are  found  in 

more durable. The walls of Human cities such as Altdorf, 

fortresses and other large buildings.

Ubersreik, and Marienburg are built and maintained by 

Dwarfs, at significant cost.

Wooden  Mantlet:  Mantlets  are  large,  sturdy  wooden 

boards fixed to props or wheeled trolleys, enabling them 

to be picked up and moved around with relative ease for 

attaCks on stRUCtURes
Given that structures cannot dodge or move, any melee 

their  size.  In  battles  and  sieges,  they  make  for  mobile 

attack  made  against  a  structure  automatically  hits.  If 

defences that can be moved forward to cover troops and 

the vehicle is moving, or a Character wishes to attack a 

equipment as they reposition or advance.

specific, difficult-to-hit spot, count the attack as a called 

shot at -20. If the driver of a moving vehicle is attacked 

Timber  Frame  Wall:  This  wall  is  typical  of  many 

in melee, resolve this as an Opposed Melee Test, but the 

residences  in  the  Old  World.  The  wall  is  framed  in 

driver may use an appropriate Drive Skill if they wish.

solid  timbers  and  filled  in  with  materials  such  as  brick, 

stone,  or  wattle  and  daub. These  walls  do  not  typically 

Weapons  such  as  swords  and  daggers  are  not  designed 

mount weaponry, but an Encumbrance Limit is shown to 

to breach walls. A GM should determine the size of the 

account for using a handy windowsill as a gunport.

structure being attacked and count its Toughness Bonus 

Earthwork: Earthworks refer to banks of earth that have 

is.  So  an  Enormous  Stone  Wall  (TB  of  6)  attacked  by 

been piled up to serve as fortifications.

an Average Human would count as having  a Toughness 

Bonus  of  18  (6  times  3).  Siege  weapons  ignore  these 

again for each size category larger it is than the attacker 

Dry Stone Wall: Dry stone walls cover stone structures 

restrictions.

made with rocks that are not shaped or fixed in place.

Stake  Palisade: A  palisade  is  constructed  by  erecting  a 

Structure Damage
Each  structure  has  a  Toughness  score  which  modifies 

fence of wooden stakes driven into the earth. Ramparts 

Damage  taken,  and  a  Damage  score  which  shows  how 

of earth are piled up behind the line of stakes and wooden 

much  Damage  it  can  take.  Note  that  walls  are  treated 

walkways built over the ramparts.

slightly differently in that the profile given only refers to 

a 5 yard stretch of wall, so even if this portion is damaged 

Portcullis Gate: An iron gate that can be lowered down 

beyond repair much of the structure may remain intact.

to protect the main entrances to a fortress.

120

XIUP IN ARMSStructures do not have Hit Locations, but if someone is 

shooting at a target that is taking cover within or behind 

Structure Critical Hits
Structures  are  much  more  difficult  to  critically  damage 

the  structure,  and  they  miss,  then  the  missile  may  hit 

than  Characters.  When  a  double  is  rolled,  a  structure 

the structure. To see if this occurs, determine how many 

risks taking a Critical Hit. However, Critical damage is 

levels of failure are involved in the miss. 

only  applied  if  the  attack  goes  on  to  remove  25%  of  a 

structure’s  remaining  Wounds.  However,  every  hit  after 

the  structure’s  Damage  score  reaches  0  causes  Critical 

Damage.  Critical  Damage  impacts  on  structures  in  the 

same way as Critical Wounds affect a Character, and any 

circumstances that would lead to the death of a Character 

go  on  to  cause  a  structure  to  take  Collapse  Critical 

Damage. The  results  of  Critical  Hits  on  a  structure  are 

as follows:

121

XIARTILLERY AND DAMAGE TO STRUCTURESStructure critical DamageRollDescriptionWoundsAdditional Effects01–35 ChippedTRandomly determine a single Character who is either on the structure or using it for cover. They are struck by flying debris and take Damage equal to the Toughness Bonus of the structure itself.36–50Jolted1Everyone on the structure reels from the impact. Any Characters on or within the structure must make an Easy (+40) Athletics Test or gain a Surprised Condition.51–60Holed1A small breach is opened in the structure. This impairs its ability to provide cover, so a structure that provided a Cover Penalty of Difficult (-10) would now only provide a Cover Penalty of Challenging (-0).61–70Rocked2Everyone on the structure reels from the impact. Any Characters on or within the structure must make an Average (+20) Athletics Test or gain the Prone Condition.71–80Hail of Splinters2All Characters who are either on the structure or using it for cover. They are struck by flying debris and take Damage equal to the Toughness Bonus of the structure itself.81–90Partial Collapse3A significant part of the structure tumbles away. Characters on or within the structure must pass a Challenging (+0) Athletics Test or fall as described in the WFRP Core Rulebook. The Encumbrance Limit of the structure is halved, and if any pieces of artillery (or other heavy equipment) now have more ENC than the structure has Encumbrance Limit, they fall off and are rendered useless until repaired.91–95Breached3A huge hole opens up in the structure. Characters on or within the structure are struck by flying debris and take Damage equal to the Toughness Bonus of the structure itself. The structure no longer provides cover to those on or within it.96 or moreCollapseDestroyedThe structure tumbles down. Characters using the structure for cover are struck by flying debris and take Damage equal to the Toughness Bonus of the structure itself. Characters on or within the structure must Test for falling, and then take Damage as if struck by a weapon with a Strength equal to the structure’s remaining Wounds. Any pieces of artillery (or other heavy equipment) fall off the structure and are rendered useless until repaired.LEVELS OF FAILUREEFFECT0 to –2The shot misses the target, but strikes the structure and may damage it.–3 or lowerThe shot misses the target and has no effect on the structure.Repairing Structures
Damage to structures can be repaired permanently on a 

The operation of catapults is also sufficiently different to 

other ranged weapons that they can only be operated by 

successful Average (+20) Trade (Carpentry) Test (if the 

crew members with Ranged (Catapult). 

structure  is  mostly  made  from  wood)  or  Average (+20) 

Trade (Mason) Test (if the structure is mostly made from 

Those with Ranged (Engineering) can crew Blackpowder 

stone). Each successful Test takes 1d10 hours of work and 

weapons with no penalty.

restores 1d10 Wounds to the structure.

Ballistae  are  relatively  simple  to  use. You  can  attempt  a 

Running repairs can be attempted in the heat of combat, 

Ranged  (Crossbow)  Test  using  Ballistic  Skill,  but  the 

though  they  usually  involve  hurriedly  piling  up  rubble 

weapon loses all Qualities whilst retaining its Flaws.

to fill a breach or hauling a fallen beam back into place. 

These  require  a  successful  extended  Very  Hard  (-30) 

Note:  Siege  weapons  must  use  special  ammunition  as 

Trade  (Carpentry)  Test  (if  the  structure  is  mostly 

detailed in the table below, despite being a Blackpowder 

made  from  wood)  or  Very  Hard  (-30)  Trade  (Mason) 

weapon,  a  cannon  may  not  fire  bullets  designed  for  a 

Test  (if  the  structure  is  mostly  made  from  stone).  Each 

handgun, and a Ballista may not shoot crossbow bolts.

successful Test  requires  20  SL  to  complete  and  restores 

1d10  Wounds  to  the  structure.  Healing,  such  as  would 

Ballistae:  Ballistae  are  giant  crossbows  that  fire  iron-

be  applied  to  wounded  Characters,  has  no  effect  on 

capped bolts that resemble fence posts. They can split a 

structures, but the GM may like to consider that creative 

person like a chicken, or punch a nice, neat hole through 

uses of certain spells or Miracles may be of benefit.

solid wood. 

siege weapons
Siege  Weapons  are  a  broad  and  varied  class  of  weapon 

Cannons: The largest cannons are restricted to fortresses 

or  well  prepared  battlefield  positions,  but  small  and 

designed  to  attack  formations  of  troops,  or  large  static 

medium  weapons  can  be  mounted  on  boats  or  wagons. 

targets,  rather  than  individual  targets. They  are  all  large 

On  battlefields,  cannonballs  inflict  damage  on  ranks 

and  powerful,  but  so  cumbersome  and  laborious  in 

of  troops  by  bouncing  through  them.  Given  that  most 

their  operation  that  they  are  rarely  employed  outside 

combat situations in Warhammer Fantasy Roleplay will 

the  context  of  serious  military  actions.  In  small  scale 

be smaller skirmishes, this is limited to the Blast 2 Quality 

skirmishes they are of limited use, either being impossible 

to  represent  damage  to  those  nearby,  but  if  targets  are 

to bring to bear, or being the last word in spectacular, but 

arranged in a line the GM should consider that the ball 

strikingly inefficient, overkill.

could conceivably hit multiple targets.

Siege  Weapons  follow  principles  developed  for  smaller 

Catapults: Catapults are indirect-fire weapons that throw 

weapons. Those  with  working  knowledge  of  a  crossbow 

rocks, bombs, or incendiaries in a high arc, bringing them 

can  manage  to  load  and  fire  ballistae,  and  cannons 

crashing down on the heads of the targets. 

are  no  more  intricate  than  handguns.  However,  most 

siege  weapons  do  require  a  crew  in  order  to  shoot  with 

Mortars:  A  mortar  is  the  blackpowder  equivalent  of  a 

acceptable accuracy or rate of fire. 

catapult, firing a heavy ball or a bomb in a high arc. On 

the  battlefield,  they  are  used  mainly  in  sieges,  throwing 

As  with  hand  held  ranged  weapons,  it  is  not  normally 

explosives over castle walls. 

possible to operate a siege weapon without training in the 

relevant group. A person with Ranged (Crossbow) could 

Swivel  Guns:  A  swivel  gun  is  like  a  blunderbuss,  but 

not crew a cannon or a Helstorm Rocket Battery.

larger. Because of its weight, it is normally mounted on a 

swivel or tripod.

122

XIUP IN ARMSVolley  Guns:  The  volley  gun  resembles  a  repeating 

Helblaster Volley Gun: The Helblaster Volley Gun has 

handgun, with a complex circular crank and levers. There 

nine  separate  barrels  divided  into  three  decks  of  three 

are  normally  seven  barrels:  one  in  the  middle,  with  six 

barrels fixed on a circular crank. As the crank is turned, 

more  clustered  around  it  in  a  hexagonal  shape.  While 

a  clever  system  of  cams  ignites  each  charge  in  turn, 

deadly  to  those  in  front  of  it,  a  volley  gun  can  also  be 

propelling a flurry of lethal projectiles from the gun. 

dangerous to an inexperienced user. Every time it is fired, 

the  user  must  make  an  Average (+20) Endurance Test, 

The advantage of the Helblaster is that it can fire several 

suffering 1 Wound for each level of Failure as the weapon 

shots  at  once  in  a  devastating  volley.  A  full  volley  will 

kicks  violently  against  the  shoulder.  On  an  Astounding 

rip  through  the  toughest  regiments,  causing  immense 

Failure,  the  user  takes  a  Critical  Hit  to  the  shoulder: 

casualties  in  the  blink  of  an  eye.  A  disadvantage  is  that 

use  the  Arm  Critical Wound Table,  adjusting  details  as 

it is inclined to jam or misfire, and once it has misfired 

necessary to reflect a shoulder hit.

it is almost always useless. The chances of being able to 

Volley  guns  take  the  same  calibre  bullets  as  a  normal 

likely  to  malfunction  given  the  complexity  of  its  firing 

fire for a prolonged time are slim, as the weapon is quite 

Blackpowder  weapon,  though  1  bullet  and  charge  of 

mechanism.

powder is used for each shot in a salvo.

123

XIARTILLERY AND DAMAGE TO STRUCTURESWeaponPriceEncAvailabilityRangeDamageQualities and FlawsCROSSBOWBallista30 GC20Scarce150 +12Accurate, Reload 3, Crewed 2BLACKPOWDERCannon (small)40 GC30Scarce100+10Dangerous, Reload 4, Crewed 2Cannon (medium)100 GC50Exotic125+14Dangerous, Reload 6, Crewed 3Cannon (large)250 GC75Exotic175+16Dangerous, Reload 8, Crewed 4Mortar50 GC50Exotic150—Reload 4, Crewed 3Swivel Gun20 GC5Rare30+14Dangerous, Reload 4CATAPULTCatapult (small)20 GC25Scarce75+10Imprecise, Reload 3, Crewed 2Catapult (medium)40 GC40Scarce100+15Imprecise, Reload 3, Crewed 3Catapult (large)60 GC65Scarce175+18Imprecise, Reload 4, Crewed 4ENGINEERINGVolley Gun10 GC5Exotic50+9Dangerous, Reload 4, Salvo 7Helblaster Volley Gun500 GC85Exotic100+10Dangerous, Reload 4*, Salvo 9Helstorm Rocket Battery500 GC75Exotic185+12Blast +5, Dangerous, Imprecise, Reload 6*, Salvo 9*Reloading a weapon with the Salvo Quality is a laborious process. The Reload number does not fully reload the weapon, but it increases the Salvo number by 1 each time it is achieved (so an empty Helstorm Rocket Battery would be Salvo 0 and would require Reload 6 to reach Salvo 1 and require 9 times Reload 6 before it was fully loaded to Salvo 9).Helstorm Rocket Battery:  Master Engineer Herman 
Faulkstein  invented  this  experimental  weapon,  inspired 

by a display of Cathayan fireworks in Altdorf. It consists 

of  a  wheeled  artillery  carriage  with  nine  gunpowder-

charged  rockets  affixed  to  a  frame.  The  elevation  can 

be  adjusted  to  fire  at  targets  on  ground  or  air.  It’s  not 

especially  accurate  and  better  suited  to  firing  on  large 

regiments than small parties on the ground.

124

XIUP IN ARMSWeaponPriceEncAvailabilityRangeDamageQualities and FlawsBALLISTABolt4/–0ScarceAs weapon—Penetrating, ImpaleCANNONBall and Powder8/–1ScarceAs weapon—Blast +2, ImpactGrapeshot and Powder6/60ExoticQuarter weapon–2Spread +5CATAPULTAnimal CarcassN/A0CommonHalf weaponSpecial*Blast +3 or Blast +20Incendiary1 GC0ScarceHalf weaponSpecial**Blast +4, DangerousStone8/–1CommonAs weapon—Damaging, ImpactMORTARBomb3GC0RareAs weapon+12Blast +5, Dangerous, ImpactIncendiary1GC0ScarceHalf weaponSpecial**Blast +4, DangerousSWIVEL GUNBullets and Powder for 1 shot2/20CommonAs weapon+1Impale, Penetrating, Spread +3Small Shot and Powder for 1 shot2/20CommonAs weapon—Spread +6VOLLEY GUNBullet and Powder (12)3/30CommonAs weapon+1Impale, PenetratingHELBLASTER VOLLEY GUNBall and Powder8/–1ScarceAs weapon—Blast +2, ImpactHELSTORM ROCKETRocket5GC1ExoticAs weapon——*An Animal Carcass inflicts Damage +4 to everyone in the area of Blast 3. Furthermore every target within Blast 20 must pass an Very Easy (+60) Endurance Test or develop a Festering Wound (see WFRP Core Rulebook, page 187).**An Incendiary gives every affected target SL+1 Ablaze Conditions. new weapon qUaLities oR fLaws
Crewed
A  weapon  with  the  Crewed  flaw  is  so  large,  heavy  and 

If  a  weapon  with  the  Crewed  Flaw  suffers  a  misfire,  all 

members of the crew are affected.

complex that it benefits from being managed by a team 

Example 1: There are two Ballistae set up on a castle rampart. 

rather than a single operator. This team all need to possess 

The  first  is  crewed  by  two  individuals  with  the  Ranged 

the relevant Ranged skill to crew the weapon. However, 

(Crossbow) Skill. The first has Ranged (Crossbow) 38 and the 

they  may  nominate  one  of  their  number  to  make  the 

second  has  Ranged  (Crossbow)  55,  they  nominate  the  crew 

relevant  Ranged  Test  to  see  how  well  the  weapon 

member with Ranged (Crossbow) 55 to take the shots.

performs when it is triggered.

The  second  is  crewed  by  an  individual  with  Ranged 

Most weapons have a crew of 2, 3 or 4. Larger crews are 

(Crossbow) 38 and a second with Ranged (Bow) 55. Because 

often  assembled,  but  extraneous  crew  members  do  not 

a Ballistae is a crossbow weapon, the Character with Ranged 

impact  the  efficiency  of  the  weapon  itself,  though  they 

(Bow)  does  not  count  as  a  crewman.  The  weapon  does  not 

may  help  move  it  or  make  up  for  casualties  among  the 

therefore have a full crew, and must double its reload time, 

crew.

and must shoot using the lower Ranged skill of 38.

If  a  weapon  requiring  a  crew  is  not  fully  crewed  it  is 

Example 2: Von Meinkop is trying to fire a Large Cannon 

impaired as explained in the table below.

without the assistance of any additional crew. Von Meinkop 

can  use  his  impressive  Ranged  (Engineering)  skill  of  92  to 

fire the weapon. However, because he is the sole crew member 

of a Crewed 4 weapon, it doubles the reload time (from 8 to 

16) and gains the Imprecise Flaw. The weapon ought to also 

gain the Dangerous Flaw, but it already has this Flaw. Von 

Meinkop’s  Ranged  (Engineering)  suffers  from  a  penalty  of 

-10 when shooting the cannon.

Penalties from reduced crew are cumulative, so a Crewed 

4 weapon with a single crewman will suffer from double 

reload time, the Imprecise Flaw, and the Dangerous Flaw.

If a weapon gains a Flaw that it already possesses, impose 

a  further  penalty  of  -10  to  any  Ranged  Tests  made  to 

shoot the weapon.

When reloading a weapon with the Crewed Flaw, one of 

the  crew  may  assist  with  any  Tests  made  to  determine 

how long the reloading process takes.

125

XIARTILLERY AND DAMAGE TO STRUCTURESCrewCrewed 2 WeaponCrewed 3 WeaponCrewed 4 Weapon4N/AN/AN/A3N/AN/ADouble Reload Time2N/ADouble Reload TimeGain Imprecise Flaw1Double Reload TimeGain Imprecise FlawGain Dangerous Flaw 
Salvo
A weapon with the Salvo Quality has the potential to let 

Example: The crew of a Helstorm Rocket Battery benefit from 

its Salvo  9 Quality. Potentially, they could fire the weapon 

off missiles either one at a time or in batches. The number 

nine  times  in  a  single  turn.  The  first  turn,  they  shoot  the 

of times the weapon can be fired is indicated by the Salvo 

weapon four times. The first shot is resolved with the Ranged 

number. Each time the weapon is fired reduce the Salvo 

(Engineering)  Skill  of  the  nominated  crew  member.  The 

number by 1. The weapon does not need to be reloaded 

second shot is resolved with a penalty of -10 to the Ranged 

until it reaches Salvo 0. 

(Engineering)  Skill  of  the  nominated  crew  member.  The 

third is resolved with a penalty of -20, and the fourth with 

A Salvo weapon can be fired more than once in a turn, 

a penalty of -30.

but  each  time  the  weapon  is  fired  after  the  first  firing, 

impose a cumulative penalty of -10 to the Ranged Skill 

The following turn, the crew fire the weapon five times. This is 

used to shoot with the weapon.

worked in the same way as the previous turn, but the fifth shot 

is resolved with a penalty of -40 to the Ranged (Engineering) 

If the weapon misfires at any point in the process, work 

Skill. The weapon is now empty and must be reloaded before 

out the effect of the misfire and then roll on the following 

being fired again.

table.

126

XIUP IN ARMSSALVO ARTILLERY MISFIRE TABLED10 RollEffect1–4All crew suffer full Damage to their primary arm location using the units die as the effective SL for the hit. The artillery piece is destroyed.5–7All crew suffer full Damage to a randomly generated location using the units die as the effective SL for the hit. The artillery piece is destroyed.8–9For each remaining point of Salvo, all crew suffer full Damage to randomly generated locations using the units die as the effective SL for the hit. The artillery piece is destroyed.10For each remaining point of Salvo, a shot is fired in a random direction for a distance of D100 yards. Any Characters standing in between the machine and the points where shots land must make a Very Hard (-30) Dodge Test to avoid being struck by a missile. •

PURSUITS OF
EXCELLENCE

•

Pursuits can be exciting moments in roleplaying games. 

The  rules  in  the  WFRP  Core  Rulebook  give  plenty 

pURsUits
Pursuits are described on page 166 of the WFRP Core 

of  advice  for  pursuits,  but  there  are  areas  that  require 

Rulebook,  but  a  summary  of  the  rules  is  also  provided 

clarification,  particularly  where  characters  break  from 

here. The  Quarry  refers  to  those  being  chased,  and  the 

combat  and  a  pursuit  commences,  or  where  many 

Pursuers refers to those who are trying to reach the quarry.

participants  in  a  pursuit  are  at  varying  distances  and 

running at different speeds. 

BReaking fRom ComBat
Fighters  can  disengage  without  risk  by  spending 

1:  Determine  Distance: The  GM  assigns  a  number  to 

represent the size of the head start the Quarry has over the 

Pursuer, called the Distance. The Distance ranges from 0 

(Quarry is caught) to 10 (Quarry escapes). 1 would mean 

Advantage, using the Dodge Skill, or turning their back 

the Quarry is almost in reach, 4 would represent a good 

and fleeing. This is described on page 165 of the WFRP 

head  start,  and  8  would  mean  Pursuers  must  work  very 

Core Rulebook, but a summary of the rules is also given 

hard to catch up.

here.

Using Advantage: If you have more Advantage than your 

their movement. This will be an Athletics Test for those 

opponent, you can drop your Advantage to 0 and move 

on  foot,  Ride  for  those  mounted  on  a  horse  or  other 

away without penalty. 

riding animal, and Drive for those on a coach, chariot or 

2: Test: Everyone involved in the pursuit rolls a Test for 

Using Dodge: By succeeding an opposed Dodge/Melee 

other vehicle.

Test  you  gain  +1  Advantage  and  can  use  your  Move  to 

3:  Update  Distance:  The  lowest  SL  of  the  quarry  and 

go anywhere under the normal rules. If you fail the Test, 

the highest SL of the Pursuer is compared. If the Quarry 

each  opponent  gains  +1  Advantage  and  you  are  pinned 

gets  a  better  result  than  the  Pursuer,  the  difference  in 

in place.

SL is added to the Distance. If the Pursuer gets a better 

result than the Quarry, the difference in SL is subtracted 

Fleeing:  For  your  Move,  you  may  turn  and  flee.  Your 

from the Distance. If the results are equal, the Distance 

opponent  gains  +1  Advantage  and  may  attempt  a  free 

remains the same.

attack. The free attack is an unopposed Melee Test using 

whatever  weapon  is  currently  held.  This  attack  also 

4:  Determine  Outcome:  If  the  Distance  falls  to  0  or 

benefits from +20 to hit. If you are struck, your opponent 

less,  the  Pursuer  has  caught  the  Quarry.  The  Quarry 

gains  +1  Advantage  and  you  must  pass  a  Challenging 

must either sacrifice their slowest member that Round to 

(+0) Cool Test or gain a Broken Condition and a further 

delay the Pursuers as the rest continue to flee, or any of 

+1 Broken Condition per SL below 0. Once the free attack 

them can volunteer to stop and confront their Pursuers. 

is  resolved,  you  may  move  up  to  your  Run  Movement 

The Pursuers can then decide who stops to confront the 

directly away from your opponent.

Quarry they have caught, and who continues in pursuit. 

If the Distance reaches 10 or more, the Pursuers have lost 

their Quarry and the pursuit is over.

127

XIIPURSUITS OF EXCELLENCEMovement Modifiers: If some of the Characters in the 

pursuit have a higher Movement, they gain a bonus SL 

equal to the difference in Movement. If a Character with 

Move  5  were  chasing  a  Move  4  Character  they  would 

gain +1 SL on the Test. 

CompLex pURsUits
The  existing  rules  work  well  for  simple  pursuits,  and 

pursuits between an individual Quarry and an individual 

Pursuer, but they assume that the Quarry all move at the 

same speed, as do the Pursuers, and that faster Characters 

are  unimpeded  by  slower  comrades.  When  pursuits 

involve  Characters  with  varying  Movement  rates,  or 

when  the  performance  of  every  individual  involved  in 

a  pursuit  counts,  more  detail  may  be  required  as  to  the 

The Distance ranges from 0 (Quarry is caught) to a number 

progress of the pursuit.

the  GM  feels  is  appropriate  for  the  Quarry  to  escape 

given the environment. The busier the environment, the 

More  complex  pursuits  require  a  little  bookkeeping  by 

smaller the number the Quarry must reach to escape. 

the  GM,  as  each  Character  in  the  pursuit  is  treated  as 

an  individual,  and  the  Distance  is  more  dependent  on 

If the Quarry are in a tight group, they all count as being 

circumstances.

at the same Distance, but if any of them lead a Pursuer 

or another Character in the Quarry group by more than 

1:  Determine  Distance: The  GM  assigns  a  number  to 

16  yards,  calculate  their  individual  Distance  from  the 

represent the size of the head start the nearest member 

Pursuers as appropriate.

of  the  Quarry  has  over  the  closest  Pursuer,  called  the 

Distance.  Each point of Distance represents 10 yards. 

The Pursuers can be treated as a group if they have the 

same Movement, or split into smaller groups according to 

their Movement or ability to pass Tests to pursue.

2:  Test  and  Update  Distance:  In  Initiative  order, 

participants  involved  in  the  pursuit  roll  a Test  for  their 

Movement. This will be an Average (+20) Athletics Test 

for  those  on  foot,  Average  (+20)  Ride  Test  for  those 

mounted on a horse or other riding animal, and Average 

(+20) Drive  Test for  those  on  a  coach,  chariot  or  other 

vehicle.  Consult  the  following  table  to  determine  the 

results of the Test.

Characters with Movement Attributes of 3 or less suffer 

penalties to Athletics Tests for complex pursuits. Characters 

with Movement 3 must make Challenging (+0) Athletics 

Tests.  Characters  with  Movement  2  must  make  Hard 

(-20) Athletics Tests. Characters with Movement 1 must 

make Very Hard (-30) Athletics Tests.

128

XIIUP IN ARMSENVIRONMENT THE CHASE TAKES PLACE WITHINDISTANCE REQUIRED TO ESCAPEBusy city streets, labyrinthine sewers, hedge maze3Craggy mountains, dense woodland, foggy fenland5Sleepy village, light woodland, swamp7Shrubby meadow, gently rolling hills, rocky beach10Featureless desert, grassy steppe, limestone pavement13ChaRaCteR pRogRess taBLe

During this stage, if any Pursuer reduces the Distance to 

a member of the Quarry to 0 they can choose whether to 

impeded movement
During  a  Pursuit,  a  Character  who  receives  the  Prone 

charge into combat, or run past in the hope of catching a 

or  Entangled  Condition,  or  otherwise  losing  the  ability 

member of the Quarry further on.

to  move  freely,  loses  their  next  opportunity  to  Test  to 

3:  Determine  Outcome:  Recalculate  the  Distance 

freeing  themselves,  potentially  having  to  make  a  test  to 

increase  their  Distance,  instead  spending  their  time 

between  the  various  Characters  involved  in  the  pursuit 

do so.

depending on their performance return to step 2.

XIIPURSUITS OF EXCELLENCESLEFFECT4 or moreThe Character sprints forward the number of yards they can normally run (or ride or drive). Divide this number by 10, rounding down to a minimum of 1. This number +1 is the Distance they move this Round.+0 to 3The Character runs forward the number of yards they can normally run (or ride or drive). Divide this number by 10 in order to determine the Distance they move, rounding down to a minimum of 1.–2 to –0The Character is blocked, needs to navigate an object, or must watch their footing for some reason. They stumble forward the number of yards they can normally run (or ride or drive). Divide this number by 10, rounding down to a minimum of 1. This number -1 is the Distance they move this Round.–3 to –4The Character skids to a halt in order to avoid a stumble. They make no progress this Round.–5 or lessThe Character trips, falls from their horse, or suffers a similar calamity. Calculate if any falls cause damage as described in the WFRP Core Rulebook, page 166. The Character then suffers from the Prone Condition.The GM then has to decide what Tests should be made 

to  navigate  the  obstacle,  and  the  penalty  for  failing  the 

Test. Some examples are provided in the table below. This 

table assumes participants are on foot, so the GM must 

think of alternative tests and consequences for mounted 

participants or those on vehicles.

Creating Obstacles
During  their  turn,  a  member  of  the  Quarry  can  try  to 

create  an  obstacle.  They  can  take  a  Perception  Test  to 

spot something convenient in the environment, or drop a 

suitable trapping, such as something sharp or slippery. The 

difficulty of the Perception Test depends on the nature of 

the environment. In a desert the GM may rule that there 

are no suitable obstacles to be found, in a crowded market 

they should be everywhere.

If  an  obstacle  is  spotted  the  member  of  the  Quarry 

should make a Challenging (+0) Athletics Test to deploy 

the obstacle. Success means the Quarry pulls or drops the 

obstacle in the path of the pursuers without losing speed. 

Failure may cost the Quarry movement, or even result in 

them becoming entangled in their own obstacle.

oBstaCLes taBLe

130

XIIUP IN ARMSObstaclesThe GM may decide to throw some obstacles in the way of the Characters. Crates of wool, muddy puddles, closed gates, passing livestock and other hazards may complicate a pursuit, both for the Quarry and the Pursuers.In order to involve an obstacle the GM must first decide what Distance the object is from the lead member of the Quarry, and whether or not it is easy to perceive. Characters who perceive an obstacle can decide to change course if the environment allows it, or tackle the obstacle in the hope that their Pursuers will find it tricky to navigate themselves.The Obstacle then counts as one of the participants in the pursuit, but one that does not move. Whenever the Distance between the obstacle and a participant in the pursuit reaches 0, the participant must either stop or tackle the obstacle.OBSTACLEPERCEIVEDTEST TO NAVIGATECONSEQUENCES OF FAILED TESTLarge LogAutomaticallyAverage (+20) Athletics TestThe participant or their mount gains the Prone Condition. HaystackAutomaticallyHard (-20) Climb TestThe Participant becomes mired in the hay, counting as Entangled against an opponent with a Strength of 2 D10+20.Filthy PuddleAverage (+20) Perception TestAverage (+20) Athletics Test if perceived, Hard (-20) Athletics Test if notThe participant showers themselves in filthy water. They suffer from -2 SL to all Fellowship based Tests until they can get themselves clean.Crates of MerchandiseAutomaticallyChallenging (+0) Athletics or Ride TestThe participant or their mount gains the Prone Condition. 2 D10 pieces of merchandise are broken.Closed GateAutomaticallyHard (-20) Climb TestThe participant is prevented from moving this Round but can try again next Round. However, on an Impressive Failure, they suffer a 2-yard fall.PotholeChallenging (+0) Perception TestEasy (+40) Athletics Test if perceived, Hard (-20) Athletics Test if notThe participant suffers a Twisted Ankle Critical Injury.exhaUstion
Participants  in  a  pursuit  are  pushing  themselves  to  the 

from  illness  or  injury,  and  so  on.  However,  in  general 

participants  on  foot  should  Test  every  ten  Rounds, 

limit, either to escape their Pursuers or catch their Quarry. 

participants on horseback Test every twenty Rounds, and 

Fatigue  may  soon  set  in,  compromising  participants’ 

participants driving a vehicle Test every thirty Rounds.

ability to continue the chase.

Keep track of how many Rounds a pursuit takes. Every 

a Fatigued Condition every time they fail an Endurance 

time  a  participant  runs  for  a  certain  amount  of  turns 

Test.  Animals  want  to  slow  to  walking  pace  as  soon  as 

in  a  row,  they  must  make  an  Endurance  Test  to  avoid 

they receive a Fatigued Condition, but can be persuaded 

exhaustion.  The  number  of  rounds  is  determined  by 

to keep running on a successful Challenging (+0) Charm 

Participants (or their mounts or their draft animals) gain 

the  GM  for  each  participant,  and  may  consider  being 

Animal Test.

encumbered,  driving  a  heavily  laden  vehicle,  suffering 

131

XIIPURSUITS OF EXCELLENCEOBSTACLEPERCEIVEDTEST TO NAVIGATECONSEQUENCES OF FAILED TESTQuicksandChallenging (+0) Perception TestEasy (+40) Athletics Test if perceived, Hard (-20) Athletics Test if notThe Participant becomes mired in the quicksand. They count as Entangled against an opponent with a Strength of D10+20. If they do not escape within 1 Round, they count as Entangled against an opponent with a Strength of 2 D10+20. This process continues for 6 Rounds, with the Strength of the Entanglement increasing by 1 D10 each Round. If the Character is still Entangled after 6 Rounds, they must make Challenging (+0) Cool Test to avoid further struggles. If they fail this Test, they must Test to see if they start to Drown.Passing Goat HerdAutomaticallyHard (-20) Athletics TestThe participant takes a hit from Weapon (Horns) +6 as enraged goats buffet into the Character.Bucket full of Fish GutsAutomaticallyEasy (+40) Athletics TestIf a participant trips over the bucket, they gain the Prone Condition. However, they leave a large slick of fermenting fish guts behind them.Slick of Fish GutsAutomaticallyHard (-20) Athletics TestThe participant tumbles over on the slippery guts. They gain the Prone Condition and suffer from -2 SL to all Fellowship based Tests until they can get themselves clean. If they have untreated wounds around the time of coming into contact with the slick, they must Test to see if the wounds become Festering Wounds.Rotten FloorboardsHard (-20) Perception TestAverage (+20) Athletics Test if perceived, Very Hard (-30) Athletics Test if notThe participant tumbles through the floorboards. They suffer from a fall of 3 yards.Workman on LadderAutomaticallyEasy (+40) Athletics TestIf a participant trips over the ladder they gain the Prone Condition. The GM should make a Hard (-20) Athletics Test on behalf of the labourer. Should they fail, they suffer a fall of 1 D10 yards.Unattended CartAutomaticallyAverage (+20) Climb TestThe participant slides back down off the cart. They are stuck this Round, but can attempt to clear the obstacle again next Round.Unattended Cart Full of CabbagesAutomaticallyChallenging (+0) Climb TestThe participant slides back down off the cart, causing a torrent of cabbages to spill down after them. They must make an Average (+20) Initiative Test or gain the Surprised Condition. The Obstacle becomes two obstacles, an Unattended Cart and a Scattered Mound of Cabbages. Scattered Mound of CabbagesAutomaticallyHard (-20) Athletics TestThe participant trips over on the cabbages. They suffer a fall as if from 1 yard and gain the Prone Condition. exhaUstion taBLe

when does BReaking fRom ComBat BeCome a pURsUit?
What if a fighter breaks from combat but their opponent still wants to engage them? Under such circumstances the 

Character who broke from combat can elect to become the Quarry in a pursuit. Their head start depends on how they 

broke from combat.

simpLe vs CompLex pURsUits

132

XIIUP IN ARMSMETHODSIMPLE PURSUITSCOMPLEX PURSUITSUsing AdvantageThe Quarry begins with a head start of 1 Distance per Advantage they spent when disengaging. So if the Character had 3 Advantage when they decided to disengage, they gain a head start of 3.The Quarry begins with a head start of 1 Distance. If they spent 3 or more Advantage when disengaging, their head start increases to 2.Using DodgeThe Quarry begins with a head start of 1 Distance.The Quarry begins with a head start of 1 Distance.FleeingIf the opponent takes an opportunity to make their free attack, the Quarry begins with a head start of 3. If the opponent forgoes their free attack they can race after the Quarry, and the Quarry starts with a head start of 1.The Quarry must make an Athletics Test as described under the Test and Update Distance section of Complex Pursuits. The result of this Test determines their initial Distance. If their opponent took the opportunity to make a free attack, the Quarry can add +2 SL to their Athletics Test to determine initial Distance.ROUNDSON FOOTMOUNTEDVEHICLE10Very Easy (+60) Endurance Test15Easy (+40) Endurance TestVery Easy (+60) Endurance Test on behalf of mount18Average (+20) Endurance TestVery Easy (+60) Endurance Test on behalf of draft animals20Challenging (+0) Endurance TestEasy (+40) Endurance Test on behalf of mount21Difficult (-10) Endurance Test22Hard (-20) Endurance TestAverage (+20) Endurance Test on behalf of mountEasy (+40) Endurance Test on behalf of draft animals23Very Hard (-30) Endurance Test24Futile (-40) Endurance TestChallenging (+0) Endurance Test on behalf of mount25Impossible (-50) Endurance TestAverage (+20) Endurance Test on behalf of draft animals26Even More Impossible (-60) Endurance TestDifficult (-10) Endurance Test on behalf of mount•

APPENDIX I:
GROUP ADVANTAGE

•

Advantage  represents  the  momentum  gained  during 

0

Assess:  If  you  use  one  of  your  Skills  to  secure  a 

combat  by  defeating  and  stymying  your  opponents. 

tactical advantage, gain +2 Advantage. If your Test 

Your  gaming  group  might  be  interested  in  a  system  of 

succeeds by 6 SL or more, gain +3 Advantage. See 

Advantage  which  no  longer  automatically  applies  a 

individual  Skill  descriptions  in  Chapter  4:  Skills 

bonus to your rolls but is instead a resource generated by 

teamwork and can be utilised at a key moment to achieve 

victory. The rules here include modifications  to  the way 

Advantage functions, is lost and gained, ways to spend it, 

and how you can change Talents and Creature Traits that 

interact with Advantage.

0

0

0

and Talents of the core rulebook for more details.

Victory: Whenever you defeat an important NPC, 

gain +1 Advantage. Subduing a party nemesis may 

grant +2 Advantage at the GM’s discretion.

Winning: If you win an Opposed Test you initiated 

during combat, gain +1 Advantage.

Outmanoeuvre: If you wound an opponent without 

These  general  changes  apply  to  the  Advantage  rules  in 

engaging  in  an  Opposed Test,  gain  +1  Advantage. 

this section: 

You  can  gain  a  maximum  of  1  Advantage  in  this 

way, no matter how many opponents are wounded 

0

0

0

Advantage  is  no  longer  accumulated  by  individual 

by your action.

players or NPCs. Instead, Advantage is gained and 

stored in the Ally Advantage Pool or the Adversary 

Advantage Pool. 

Whenever  a  Character  generates  Advantage,  place 

it in the Ally Advantage Pool. Whenever a hostile 

or neutral NPC generates Advantage, place it in the 

Adversary Advantage Pool.

Allied  NPCs  generate  advantage  for  the  Ally 

Advantage Pool.

gaining advantage
Advantage is gained through the following ways, which 

modify the rules on WFRP page 164. 

Combatants  gain  Advantage  each  time  they  win  an 

Opposed  Test  in  combat,  assess  the  battlefield  using 

their Skills, or when their spirits are lifted. The following 

provides some examples of this, but is far from exhaustive. 

The GM is encouraged to hand out Advantage tokens as 

suits the circumstances.

0

Surprise:  Attacking  Surprised  enemies  grants  +1 

Advantage. See WFRP, page 169.

AI 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
134

AIUP IN ARMSBENEFITS OF ADVANTAGE Advantage can be spent from the respective Advantage Pool for the following effects on a player or creature’s turn. You do not need to consult with anyone before spending Advantage but courtesy is rarely a vice.ADVANTAGE COSTADVANTAGE SPENDEFFECT1 AdvantageBatter: When facing a more skilled opponent, sometimes brute force can succeed where other approaches fail. Special Action: To Batter your opponent, perform an Opposed Strength Test with your Opponent (both you and your opponent Test your Strength Attribute). Whoever scores the highest SL wins. If you win the Test, your opponent gains the Prone condition and gains +1 Advantage. If you lose the Opposed Test, your opponent gains +1 Advantage and your Action is over. You do not gain the Advantage from winning an Opposed Test from winning this test. 1 AdvantageTrick: You take a moment to throw dirt in an opponent’s eyes or set them alight with a splash of burning oil. This manoeuvre is risky, and few foes are fooled the same way more than once.Special Action: To Trick your opponent, perform an Opposed Agility Test with your Opponent (both you and your opponent Test your Agility Attribute). Whoever scores the highest SL wins. If you win the Test, you gain +1 Advantage. If the GM feels the circumstances suit it, you can also force your opponent to gain your choice of the Ablaze, Blinded, or Entangled Condition. If you lose the Opposed Test, your opponent gains +1 Advantage and your Action is over. The GM may disallow any of these Conditions if you do not have a suitable item to hand or you have inflicted the same Condition on the opponent before. You do not gain the Advantage from winning an Opposed Test from winning this Test. 2 AdvantageAdditional Effort: In desperate circumstances you can use the momentum you have gained to increase your chance of success. Free Action: You gain a +10% bonus to any Test before you make it. You may spend extra Advantage to add an additional +10% bonus per Advantage spent. For example, you could spend 3 Advantage for a +20% bonus, or 4 Advantage for a +30% bonus. This Test never generates Advantage for the character performing it. 2 AdvantageFlee from Harm: You take advantage of a momentary lull or distraction to break from the fight.Move: You may move away from your opponents without penalty. This replaces the Disengaging rules on WFRP, page 165.  4 AdvantageAdditional Action: You take advantage of an opening to accomplish something remarkable.Free Action: You perform an additional Action. This Action never generates Advantage for the character performing it. You may only spend Advantage to take an Additional Action once per turn.Advantage can also be spent from the respective pool to activate Creature Traits as per pages 338–343 of the core rulebook. LOSING ADVANTAGEThe GM should assess the conflict at the end of the Round. If one side has more combatants, their side is dominant and the other side suppressed. If the number of combatants is equal, decide by which side holds a tactical advantage, such as having higher ground or surrounding their opponents. Once decided, move 1 Advantage from the suppressed Advantage Pool to the dominant Advantage Pool. If there is no Advantage in the suppressed Advantage Pool, the dominant Advantage Pool gains 1 Advantage.seeding the advantage pooLs
Many GMs will be satisfied with both Advantage pools 

Example:  A  party  of  five  adventurers  have  snuck  up  on 

ten  Goblins  and  their  Shaman  atop  a  Manticore. The  Ally 

beginning  at  zero  and  accumulating  more  points  based 

Advantage  Pool  gains  2  Advantage  for  the  element  of 

on the combatants’ actions. Optionally, you can represent 

surprise. The Adversary Advantage Pool gains 2 Advantage 

initial  tactical  positioning  and  favourable  situations 

for Outnumbering the adventurers 2 to 1 and 3 Advantage 

by  awarding  some  Advantage  to  either  pool  as  combat 

for the Manticore, for a total of 5 Advantage. 

begins. Awarding some Advantage for one side possessing 

the  element  of  surprise  is  often  less  complicated  than 

awarding the Surprised Condition to multiple opponents. 

Changing taLents
Several Talents have been changed to fit these alternative 

Only  the  highest  modifier  in  each  circumstance  should 

Advantage rules. Refer to New and Updated Talents on 

be awarded. The Advantage is awarded to the pool of the 

page  140  to  see  how  the  following Talents  are  affected: 

side benefiting from that circumstance. 

Beat  Blade,  Distract,  Drilled,  Gunner,  Rapid  Reload, 

INITIAL ADVANTAGE

Relentless, Reversal, and Shieldsman.

Changing CReatURe tRaits
The  following  Creature  Trait  has  been  changed  to  fit 

these alternative Advantage rules.

Unstable 
The creature’s corpus is maintained by foul magicks that 

are inherently unstable in the material realm. At the end 

of the round, the GM should randomly select one creature 

with the Unstable Trait. If the opposing Advantage Pool 

is  higher  than  the  creature’s  Advantage  Pool,  it  loses 

Wounds  equal  to  the  difference.  If  this  reduces  it  to  0 

Wounds, the magicks holding it in place collapse and it 

‘dies’.

135

AIAPPENDIX I: GROUP ADVANTAGECIRCUMSTANCESADVANTAGE AWARDEDManoeuvrability: One side possessing an advantage in movement such as being mounted or facing giant spiders in trees.2Outnumbering: A greater number of opponents, but less than twice that of their opponents..1Outnumbering: Outnumbered 2 to 1.2Outnumbering: Outnumbered 3 to 1.3Surprise: One side has achieved an unexpected assault.2Terrain: Light fortification/cover or holding. An advantageous position, such as a hill.1Terrain: Heavy cover or holding a key position such as a bridge.2Threat: A side possesses a dangerous threat such as a warpfire thrower, Ogre, or Troll.1Threat: A side possesses a very dangerous threat, a match for several foes such as an organ gun, Manticore, or Griffon.3Threat: A side possesses an extremely dangerous threat, a match for a dozen lesser foes such as a Dragon or Greater Daemon.5aLteRed aCtions in ComBat
You may take the following Actions in combat.

Assess: You use a Skill in some way to gain an advantage 

in  combat;  narrate  how  the  Skill  will  apply  to  this 

situation  and  make  a  Dramatic  Test.  Your  GM  may 

apply a penalty or bonus to the roll if they feel the Skill 

is particularly appropriate or inappropriate. On a success, 

gain 2 Advantage. On a success with 6 or more SL, gain 

3 Advantage.

Attack:  This  is  a  melee  or  ranged  attack,  resolved 

according to WFRP, page 158.

Defend: Choose an appropriate Skill or Characteristic to 

use  defensively,  such  as  Dodge  or  Agility. You  gain  +20 

to defensive Tests using the Skill until the start of your 

next turn.

Special: This refers to actions from Skills or Talents such 

as grappling, intimidating someone, casting a spell, using 

the Dual Wielder Talent, or staunching a bleeding wound 

with bandages. 

Sprint: On your turn, you can use your Action to sprint. 

This  requires  an  Average  (+20)  Athletics Test,  and  the 

distance covered is in addition to your Move this round. 

You  sprint  your  Run  movement  +  SL  in  yards  (see  the 

Movement  Table  on  WFRP,  page  165  for  your  Run 

movement). 

For example, a character with Move 4 who rolled –2 SL 

would sprint an additional 14 yards (16 – 2 = 14).

Charging now gives you a +10 bonus to the first Melee 

Test you initiate after completing your move. 

136

AIUP IN ARMS•

APPENDIX II:
WARRIOR ENDEAVOURS

•

Warrior Endeavours often operate under the principle of 

refining  one’s  skill  in  the  martial  arts.    Any  Character 

may  attempt  these  Endeavours  but  if  they  have  never 

the LeitdoRf defenCe
Warriors
As  every  warrior  is  painfully  aware,  every  style  has  its 

belonged to the Warrior Class, any Tests you take are one 

counter. A swordsman stymied by the long reach of a spear, 

Difficulty  Level  harder.  For  example,  a  Difficult  (–10) 

or a zweihander being unable to connect with a nimble 

Test becomes Hard (–20).

fanmaRis’s peRfeCt shot
Warriors
Any practitioner of ranged combat knows the value of the 

noble with a rapier. These are frustrating experiences that 

often lead a fighter to explore novel approaches such as 

driving  crossguards  into  an  opponent’s  face,  head  butts, 

or  grasping  their  blade.  Such  tactics  are  innately  risky 

but  disorientating  for  an  opponent  expecting  a  more 

perfect shot at the ideal time. A well-placed arrow or bullet 

structured attack. 

to the right target can end a battle as surely as a charge 

from  a  knightly  order.  The  Character  seeks  to  improve 

The truly brave will consult the pamphlet describing the 

their skill at archery by consulting Allavandrel Fanmaris’s 

Leitdorf Defence, purportedly written by Count Marius 

training  manual  and  practices  making  shots  under 

Leitdorf  of  Averland.  Paradoxically,  it  describes  a  series 

distracting  conditions  and  against  demanding  targets. 

of  unusual  offensive  manoeuvres  to  counter  orthodox 

After  undertaking  this  Endeavour,  attempt  a  Difficult 

defences.  After  using  this  technique,  as  you  dress  your 

(–10)  Ranged  (Bow)  Test.  If  you  succeed,  once  during 

wounds, you might resolve never to attempt such bravado 

the  next  adventure  you  may  use  the  following  benefit: 

again.

After  spending  one  Round  in  combat  aiming  at  your 

opponent,  you  may  declare  you  are  making  a  Perfect 

After  undertaking  this  Endeavour,  attempt  a  Difficult 

Shot.  Make  a  Ranged Test,  with  bonuses  and  penalties 

(–10) Melee Test.  If  you  succeed,  once  during  the  next 

as  normal,  including  the  +20  for  aiming.  Your  attack 

adventure  you  may  use  the  following  benefit:  After  one 

gains the additional effects below based on the total SL 

or  more  rounds  being  engaged  with  an  opponent,  you 

achieved on your Ranged Test. All effects are cumulative.

may  declare  you  are  using  the  Leitdorf  Defence.  Make 

an attack by performing an Opposed Melee Test with a 

–10 penalty. 

Your  opponent  may  not  use  their  Talents  or  add  their 

Skill Advances when defending against this attack. After 

resolving  the  attack,  if  you  win  the  Test,  suffer  1d10 

Damage  ignoring  Armour.  If  your  opponent  wins  the 

Test,  they  inflict  a  Critical  Hit  as  the  risky  manoeuvre 

leaves you exposed and vulnerable.

AII

137

SLEFFECT (CUMULATIVE)+1You may choose the hit location.+2–3Your weapon gains the Penetrating Quality (WFRP, page 298) for this attack. If it is already Penetrating, increase the Damage by 2.+4–5You deliver an automatic Critical Hit. +6Your weapon gains the Damaging Quality (WFRP, page 297) for this attack. If it is already Damaging, it gains Impact (WFRP, page 298).You may enact the Endeavour multiple times if you wish.aLCatini method
Warriors, must possess at least two ranks of 
the Drilled Talent
Every general goes to war with the army they have, rather 

After  undertaking  this  Endeavour,  attempt  a  Difficult 

(–10)  Charm  Test  or  a  Challenging  (+0)  Entertain 

(Storytelling)  Test.  If  you  succeed,  you  receive  2d10 

shillings  and  once  during  the  next  adventure  you  may 

than  the  one  they  want.  But  rabble  from  the  streets  or 

reverse  the  dice  on  a  Charm  or  Entertain  (Storytelling) 

labourers from the fields are of little use on a battlefield 

Test as one of the people listening has recently read, or 

without enough training to follow orders and make good 

had read to them, your tale.

on  commands.  The  Alcatini  Method  uses  a  mixture  of 

shouting, threats, speeches, alcohol, and bribery to rapidly 

forge  a  group  of  miscreants  into  something  resembling 

a  functioning  unit.  However,  without  regular  practice, 

these lessons quickly fade. 

the qUaRteRmasteR shUffLe
Warriors 
The right piece of equipment is often the difference 

between success or failure, victory or defeat, life and 

death. Top-tier kit is often beyond the budget of a 

After  undertaking  this  Endeavour,  attempt  a  Difficult 

humble adventurer, but in the seedier parts of the 

(–10)  Leadership  Test.  For  each  SL  you  score  on  this 

Old World, a few coins and a quiet word to an old 

Test,  you  may  give  one  character  a  single  rank  in  the 

companion can reveal an opportunity to acquire 

Drilled  Talent  (WFRP,  page  136)  for  the  duration  of 

whatever you desire. These jobs are invariably dangerous, 

the  next  adventure.  Characters  who  already  possess 

and often fatal, but the prize may be worth the scars. 

the  Drilled Talent  may  increase  their  Drilled  rank  by  1 

To  undertake  this  Endeavour  choose  a  Trapping, 

to  a  maximum  of  the  endeavouring  Character’s  Drilled 

apply  any  desired  Qualities,  and  calculate  its  final  cost, 

rank.  Characters  with  the  Inspiring Talent  multiply  the 

rounding  up  to  the  nearest  Gold  Crown.  A  limit  of  20 

number  of  characters  granted  Drilled  as  in  the  table  in 

GCs generally applies but the GM may waive this if they 

the  core  rulebook  (WFRP,  page  139).  For  example,  a 

wish. Then  attempt  a  Challenging (+0)  Gossip Test  to 

character who achieved +3 SL on their Leadership Test 

locate an old associate who knows a suitable job. If you 

and possesses 2 ranks in the Inspiring Talent could grant 

succeed, you are furnished with the details of a job where 

+1 rank of Drilled to up to 30 characters. 

you can acquire the requested item, either as payment or 

CoUnt pUnChaUsen’s naRRative 
aUCtion
Warriors
The advent of the printing press has brought pamphlets 

for the taking during the job itself. 

The job is dangerous. Attempt a Difficult (–10) Melee or 

Ranged Test. If you succeed, you receive both the desired 

item and a Critical Wound to a random location with a  

to  the  masses.  While  some  focus  on  religious  texts  or 

–20 penalty on the critical severity. If you fail, you receive 

denouncing  their  political  opponents,  there  are  always 

the item and a Critical Wound to a random location with 

those looking for material that might appeal to a wider 

a  bonus  to  the  critical  severity  equal  to  the  item’s  cost 

audience — gory tales from adventurers on the road are 

in Gold Crowns. You may not use Critical Deflection to 

always in demand. Printed on the cheapest possible paper 

negate the Critical Wound but a Fate point could avoid 

and  illustrated  with  graphic  woodcuts  to  appeal  to  the 

certain consequences. 

illiterate, these so-called pfennig dreadfuls are popular in 

many parts of the Empire. Warriors in search of a little 

Consult  the  table  below  to  generate  the  details  of  a 

coin and a splash of notoriety can seek to sell their tale 

random job. 

to a printer. 

AII

138

UP IN ARMSA P P E N D I X   I I :   WA R R I O R   E N D E AVO U R S

AII

139

JOB GENERATORTo get the item roll on the Location table to find out where you need to go to, then the Objective Table to see what you have to do, and the personality Table to see who is employing you to take on the task. LOCATION TABLE 1d100Location01–05A sinister cottage at the edge of the woods.06–10A low rent abattoir.11–15An apiary filled with rather territorial bees.16–20A warehouse that stinks of blackpowder.21–25An Imperial signal tower.26–30A coaching inn with a surplus of pork products.31–35A large townhouse in the Stirland style with unusually thick curtains.36–40A military camp.41–45A fine stable with two aggressive stallions.46–50A stockyard with a pack of starving dogs.51–55A sewer equipped with some truly fearsome odors.56–60An office full of papers and oil lamps.61–65A clearing on a hill with a large standing stone.66–70A currently active fighting pit.71–75A cave, littered with cracked bones.76–80A graveyard with some recently disturbed plots.81–85A wizard’s tower, the ground floor is covered in something unusual.86–90An abandoned temple to Verena.91–95A cellar used as a secret meeting place.96–100A dock, rotten in several places. OBJECTIVE TABLE 1d100Objective01–05A locked incredibly heavy chest.06–10Several bags of rare spices from Ind.11–15A sealed jar from Araby.16–20A gold plaque taken from the Southlands.21–25A sword broken in three pieces.26–30An exquisite obsidian necklace.31–35A kidnapped noble.36–40A satchel of warpstone powder.41–45Deed to a property.46–50A package of apothecary draughts.51–55An imprisoned outlaw.56–60The ornate warhammer of a priest of Sigmar.61–65A forbidden tome.66–70A Dwarf firearm.71–75A crying missing child.76–80A skull apparently made from crystal.81–85A jade talisman, one finger long, inscribed with odd runes.86–90A piece of armour, once worn by a famous general.91–95A map detailing certain secrets.96–100A piece of Dwarf engineering.PERSONALITY TABLE 1d100Personality01–05A hopeless romantic.06–10An irate Dwarven engineer.11–15A dissolute noble.16–20A desperate Halfling chef.21–25A leader of a cult.26–30A senior watchman.31–35An Elven diplomat.36–40A paranoid ratcatcher.41–45A plaintive orphan.46–50An exiled noble.51–55A furious Trollslayer.56–60A prominent priest.61–65A Halfling investigator.66–70A hooded and masked Elf.71–75A nervous merchant.76–80An aggressive Witch Hunter.81–85An intimidating criminal.86–90A diminutive investigator.91–95A general with an army at their command.96–100An Imperial envoy.AIII

•

APPENDIX III:
NEW AND UPDATED TALENTS

•

Beat Blade 
Max: Weapon Skill Bonus

Tests: Melee for a Beat Blade

Drilled
Max: Weapon Skill Bonus

Bonus Tests: Melee Tests when beside an ally with 

You are trained to make sharp controlled blows to your 

Drilled 

opponent’s weapon, creating an opening for an attack or 

You have been trained to fight shoulder-to-shoulder with 

simply  impeding  an  incoming  attack.  For  your  Action, 

other soldiers. Characters with the Drilled Talent count 

you  can  choose  to  Beat  Blade  before  rolling.  Perform  a 

as two combatants when determining Losing Advantage 

Melee Test;  if  successful,  the  opposing  Advantage  Pool 

(page 137).

loses –1 Advantage, and loses a further –1 if you score 6 

SL. This Test is not Opposed. This Talent is of no use if 

your opponent has no weapon or has a larger Size than 

Flee!
Max: Agility Bonus

you.

Tests: Athletics when fleeing or when the Quarry in a 

Crew Commander
Max: Initiative bonus

pursuit

When your life is on the line, you are capable of impressive 

bursts  of  speed.  Your  Movement  Attribute  counts  as  1 

Tests: Ranged Skill tests when firing a weapon with the 

higher  when  Fleeing  or  when  you  are  the  Quarry  in  a 

Crewed Flaw

pursuit.

A  Character  with  this  talent  is  practised  at  managing 

crews of siege weapons and artillery pieces. The Character 

may  make  a Challenging (+0) Leadership Test  to  help 

Gunner
Max: Dexterity Bonus

a  crew  manning  a  weapon  with  the  Crewed  Quality 

You can reload blackpowder weapons with practiced ease. 

within earshot. If the Character passes the Test, the crew 

You add SL equal to your level in Gunner to any Extended 

members  may  then  use  the  Character’s  Ranged  Skill 

Test to reload a blackpowder weapon. Reloading a ranged 

when shooting the weapon.

Distract 
Max: Agility 

weapon  during  combat  also  counts  as  an  Assess  action. 

You gain an extra +1 Advantage when making that Assess 

Test. 

Bonus Tests: Athletics to Distract 

You are trained in simple movements to distract or startle 

Rapid Reload 
Max: Dexterity Bonus

your  opponent,  drawing  eyes  from  your  true  intent. 

You  can  reload  ranged  weapons  with  practiced  ease. 

You  may  use  your  Move  to  perform  a  Distraction. This 

You  add  SL  equal  to  your  level  in  Rapid  Reload  to  any 

is  resolved  by  an  Opposed  Athletics/Cool  Test  against 

Extended Test  to  reload  a  ranged  weapon.  Reloading  a 

your  target.  If  you  win,  your  opponent  can  generate  no 

ranged  weapon  during  combat  also  counts  as  an  Assess 

Advantage for their Pool until the end of the next Round.

action. You gain an extra +1 Advantage when making that 

Assess Test. 

140

A P P E N D I X   I I I :   N E W   A N D   U P DAT E D   TA L E N T S

AIII

Relentless 
Max: One 

In addition, you treat your size as being the same as that 

of  your  mount  for  the  purposes  of  resisting  Fear  and 

When you have your mind set on a target, there is nothing 

Terror caused solely by the size of your opponent, such is 

anyone can do to stop you reaching them. The advantage 

your confidence when mounted.

cost of the Flee from Harm action is reduced to 1. 

Reversal 
Max: Weapon Skill Bonus

Tests: Melee when defending

You are used to desperate combats, able to turn even the 

Example:  Another  person  on  a  horse  would  not  cause  Fear, 

but a Daemon or an Undead creature would.

Shieldsman 
Max: Strength Bonus

direst  circumstances  to  your  advantage.  If  you  win  an 

Tests: Any Test to defend with a shield

Opposed  Melee Test,  instead  of  gaining  +1  Advantage, 

You are skilled at using your shield to manoeuvre others 

you may take 1 Advantage from the opposing Advantage 

in  combat  so  you  can  take  advantage  of  a  desperate 

Pool and add it to your own. If you do this, you do not 

situation. When using a Shield to defend, once per turn, 

cause any Damage, even if it is your Turn in the Round.

you  may  spend  2  Advantage  to  either  cause  Damage 

Roughrider
Max: Agility Bonus

Tests: Ride Tests when in combat

when you are attacked as if it were your Action or to push 

your opponent 2 yards directly back from yourself and no 

longer count as engaged. 

You are at home in the saddle in even the most difficult of 

circumstances, and know how to get the best out of your 

Strike to Injure
Max: 1

mount during conflict. Assuming you have the Ride skill, 

You are an expert in striking your enemies most vulnerable 

you can direct your mount to take an Action, not just a 

areas.  When  rolling  on  a  Critical  Damage  table,  make 

Move, without a Ride Test. 

two rolls and choose which result you prefer.

EXCITING ADVENTURES SET IN  
THE DUCHY OF UBERSREIK!

VENTURE INTO THE SHADOWS IN THE EXCLUSIVE

ENEMY IN SHADOWS

COLLECTOR’S EDITION

WADE INTO THE MURKEY WATERS OF THE REIK IN

DEATH ON THE REIK

PART II OF THE ENEMY WITHIN CAMPAIGN

Use as single stand-alone adventures, slotted into an existing campaign, or combined 
 to form a campaign exploring the Duchy of Ubersreik - the setting established in the  
Warhammer Fantasy Roleplay Starter Set. Order Now and receive the PDF straight away.

Find out more about the full range of exciting Warhammer Fantasy Roleplay games on
www.cubicle7games.com

Enemy in Shadows is the first part of the legendary Enemy Within campaign, only for

Warhammer Fantasy Roleplay 

Avalaible now, along with a host of other games and expansions, at

www.cubicle7games.com

Death on the Reik and its Companion are avialable to pre-order now,

along with a host of other game and expansions, on

www.cubicle7games.com

142

AIUP IN ARMSEXCITING ADVENTURES SET IN  

THE DUCHY OF UBERSREIK!

VENTURE INTO THE SHADOWS IN THE EXCLUSIVE
ENEMY IN SHADOWS
COLLECTOR’S EDITION

WADE INTO THE MURKEY WATERS OF THE REIK IN

DEATH ON THE REIK

PART II OF THE ENEMY WITHIN CAMPAIGN

Use as single stand-alone adventures, slotted into an existing campaign, or combined 

 to form a campaign exploring the Duchy of Ubersreik - the setting established in the  

Warhammer Fantasy Roleplay Starter Set. Order Now and receive the PDF straight away.

Find out more about the full range of exciting Warhammer Fantasy Roleplay games on

www.cubicle7games.com

Enemy in Shadows is the first part of the legendary Enemy Within campaign, only for
Warhammer Fantasy Roleplay 
Avalaible now, along with a host of other games and expansions, at
www.cubicle7games.com

Death on the Reik and its Companion are avialable to pre-order now,

along with a host of other game and expansions, on

www.cubicle7games.com

143

AIAPPENDIX I: GROUP ADVANTAGE