Guide to Return to Dark Tower 

WORLD SET-UP 
- Place the game board so that each kingdom faces a 
different player.   
- Turn on the Tower.  Each level will rotate.  When they 
finish, slide the 12 seals to cover the openings.  Place the 
Tower in the center of the game board. 
- Place the 16 buildings in their spaces. 
- Set aside the warrior tokens, the Spirit tokens, and 
EXACTLY 24 skulls to create the supply.  The game comes 
with extra skulls in case any get lost. 
- Sort the Gear cards into 6 separate face-up stacks, making 
sure that each stack has 3 copies of a single card. 
- Shuffle the Treasure cards together to form a face-down 
deck.  Draw the top 3 cards and place them in a face-up row 
to form the market. 
- Shuffle the Potion cards together into a face-down deck. 
- Shuffle the Corruption cards together into a face-down 
deck. 
- Place the companion cards, quest markers, and the haggle 
die near the game board. 
- Leave the other tokens in the game box for now as you will 
not need all of them in every game.  You will retrieve them 
later, if required. 

HERO SET-UP 
- Players decide which Hero they will play and determine a 
start player. 
- Each player places their Hero board in front of them. 
- Place the 3 Hero Virtue tiles for your Hero in empty slots 
on your Hero board, inactive side up.   
- Place your Hero figure on the space with the citadel in the 
kingdom in front of you.  This kingdom is your HOME 
kingdom. 
- Place the kingdom Virtue tile for your home kingdom in 
one of the empty slots on your Hero board. 
- Collect your starting resources (7 Warriors and 1 Spirit) 
from the supply. 

APP SET-UP 
- Launch the app from your device and select New Game. 
- Follow the prompts in the app to sync your device with 
your Tower. 
- Select your game mode – cooperative or competitive.  The 
default difficulty is Heroic, but you can change it to Gritty 
for a harder game.  Also, select any expansions you are 
using. 
- Select the number of players. 
- Select your Main Goal and retrieve the matching 
companion card. 
- Select your Adversary and place the matching Adversary 
card and token nearby. 

- Select your Foes – one Level 2, one Level 3, and one Level 
4. 
- When you are ready to begin, press Begin Game. 
- Follow the final set-up instructions in the app – adding 
skulls, spawning Foes, placing the Main Goal quest marker, 
etc. 
- The recommended first game is Recover Azkol’s Treasures 
and Ashstrider. 

CONCEPTS TO KNOW - HEROES 
Advantages – There are 6 types of Advantages linked to the 
6 traits found on dungeons and Foes.  Wild Advantages 
count as any of these 6. 

You calculate Advantages before you battle Foes or explore 
dungeons with matching traits and spend them to improve 
the results of battle cards or dungeon rooms. 

Advantages with a BLACK background are automatic and do 
NOT have a cost.  Advantages with a GRAY background are 
conditional and have a cost. 

Warriors – These are an important resource when battling 
Foes, exploring dungeons, and completing quests.  These 
tokens are unlimited, so use a proxy if you run out. 

Spirit – This is a resource that allows Heroes to move 
farther, gain Virtues, remove Corruption, and improve 
effectiveness when reinforcing.  These tokens are 
unlimited, so use a proxy if you run out. 

Virtues – These are special abilities unique to your Hero.  
You start the game with 3 active Virtues and 3 inactive 
Virtues, which can be gained in-game.  You gain a Virtue by 
spending Spirit when reinforcing at a citadel. 

When you gain a Virtue, flip one of your inactive Virtues to 
its active side.  It goes into effect IMMEDIATELY and CAN 
be used MULTIPLE times per interaction. 

Items – There are four types of items – Potions, Gear, 
Treasures, and quest items.  You gain items by reinforcing, 
defeating Foes, exploring dungeons, and completing quests.  
You can ONLY use your items on YOUR turn.  Each Hero can 
carry a certain number of items: 

Potions – unlimited 
Gear – up to 1 of each 
Treasure – up to 4 
Quest Item – unlimited 

When you gain a Potion, draw the top card.  When you gain 
Gear, choose one from the Gear stacks.  When you gain 
Treasure, choose one of the face-up Treasures from the 
Market.  Whenever a Treasure leaves the market, replace it 
with the top card from the Treasure deck.  When you find a 
quest item, take it from the quest item deck in the box. 

Buildings – There are 4 types of buildings – citadels, 
sanctuaries, villages, and bazaars.  Each kingdom has one 
building of each type. 

Companions – These are allies who aid your efforts.  In each 
game, there is a main companion who offers beneficial 
quests.  Some quests let you recruit other companions who 
will provide their abilities to the Hero they accompany. 

When a quest to gain a new companion is completed, the 
new companion joins the Hero that completed the quest 
and will accompany the Heroes for the rest of the game. 

Corruptions – These are penalties that weaken your Hero.  
You gain Corruptions when: 

•  An event, battle card, or dungeon room makes you 
lose resources or items that you do not have. 

•  The outcome of a failed quest instructs you to. 
•  ANY TIME a building in YOUR HOME kingdom is 
destroyed. 

When you gain a Corruption, draw the top card of the 
Corruption deck and place it on your Hero board.  It goes 
into effect IMMEDIATELY. 

You CANNOT gain more than ONE Corruption per event, 
battle card, or dungeon room, HOWEVER if you take a 
Corruption from one of these AND there is additional 
consequence of a building (or more than one) in your 
kingdom being destroyed, you take a Corruption from the 
event/battle card/dungeon room AND a Corruption for 
EACH building destroyed in your kingdom. 

You can ONLY have up to TWO Corruptions.  If you would 
ever gain a third, the players LOSE THE GAME and press the 
Game Lost button in the app. 

It is possible for players to remove Corruptions.  Place 
removed Corruptions at the bottom of the Corruption deck. 

CONCEPTS TO KNOW – THE WORLD 
Kingdoms – The board is divided into 4 kingdoms – North, 
South, East, and West.  The kingdoms are separated by 
rivers and each kingdom has 15 spaces, with terrain types 
designated by color and icon. 

The kingdom facing you is your HOME kingdom.  The 
kingdom your figure is in is your CURRENT kingdom. 

In games with fewer than 4 players, a kingdom that is not 
anyone’s home is a DORMANT kingdom. 

While you are on a space with a building, you can take the 
Reinforce Action. 

Whenever a building is destroyed, the building and the 3 
skulls on it are REMOVED FROM THE GAME.  The Hero 
whose home kingdom the building was in gains a 
Corruption.  If it was in a dormant kingdom, the NO ONE 
gains a Corruption. 

Skulls – Skulls represent the growing influence of evil.  
When skulls emerge from the Tower or are added due to 
events, they MUST be placed on buildings.  As seals on the 
Tower are removed, skulls will emerge with greater 
frequency. 

Each building can hold up to 3 skulls.  If a 4th skull would be 
placed on a building, the building is destroyed instead.  If 
players ever need to take a skull from the supply and there 
aren’t any, the players LOSE THE GAME. 

Foes – In each game, you will face 4 types of Foes, including 
the Adversary.  The app will tell you when these Foes 
appear and where they are placed.  Each Foe has a 
matching card. 

The Foe’s Level is how many battle cards are drawn.  Their 
Traits tell you which Advantages you can spend against the 
Foe and what might happen when you battle them.  Their 
Strike Event indicates what the Foe will do about once a 
month.  Foes strike ONLY if there is at least one of those 
Foes on the board.  A Foe’s Status is how threatening their 
battle cards and events are.  A Foe’s Status will grow more 
lethal the longer they are on the board.  Some rare events 
will weaken them. 

The Foe Status Screen in the app shows information about 
each Foe on the board.  You also use this screen to remove 
a Foe without battling it when a game effect allows you to. 

SEQUENCE OF PLAY 
The game is played in a series of months.  If the Heroes do 
not complete the Main Goal AND THEN defeat the 
Adversary before the end of the 6th month, they LOSE THE 
GAME. 

Individual Turns 
In the 1st month, the first turn is taken by the start player.  
Then play continues clockwise with each player taking 
EXACTLY ONE TURN in the 1st month. 

In the following months, the first turn is taken by the player 
seated to the left of the player that took the final turn in the 
PREVIOUS month.  Play continues clockwise – you will know 
the average number of turns per month, but not the exact 
number.  The app will inform you when the month ends. 

Monthly Quests 
At the start of each month (except the first), the app will 
give two monthly quests.  Read them aloud and place the 
matching quest markers on the board spaces where they 
can be completed. 

much as you can and then gain a SINGLE Corruption.  You 
CANNOT gain multiple Corruptions from a SINGLE effect, 
though losing buildings from your home kingdom is an 
EXCEPTION. 

2 – Middle of Turn 
In the middle of your turn, you may Move, take a Heroic 
Action, AND take a Reinforce Action.  These are optional 
and can be performed in ANY order.  You CAN even split 
your move, stopping to take actions before, in the middle 
of, or after moving. 

Companion Quest – Completing this quest provides a new 
companion or quest item. 

Movement – Move a number of spaces up to your Move 
value.  Your base value is listed on your Hero board. 

Adversary Quest – Failing this quest allows the Adversary to 
advance their plans, making the world worse for the 
Heroes. 

Monthly quests fail if they are not completed by the end of 
the month.  Read the outcome aloud and resolve any effect 
as instructed by the app. 

TAKING YOUR TURN 
Perform these steps, in order: 

1.  Start of Turn – You MAY take your Banner action. 
2.  Middle of Turn – You MAY move, take a Heroic 
Action, AND take a Reinforce Action, IN ANY 
ORDER. 

3.  End of Turn – You MUST drop a skull into the 

Tower.  These should ONLY be done while on the 
Main Menu of the app. 

1 – Start of Turn 
You MAY take the Banner action listed on your Hero board.  
This action is OPTIONAL, but you CANNOT save it for later. 

Other game effects that apply “at the start of your turn” 
happen now and you CAN resolve these types of effects 
AND your Banner action in ANY order. 

Making Trades – Once during your turn, you may trade with 
Heroes on your space, so long as all agree.  You MAY trade 
Warriors, Spirit, items, and companions.  You CANNOT 
trade Virtues or Corruptions. 

Spending vs. Losing – Spending resources or items is 
OPTIONAL and can be done at ANY point during your turn, 
such as spending an item to gain its effect, activating a 
Virtue, or completing a quest. 

Losing resources or items is MANDATORY.  You MUST lose 
them, if possible.  If you cannot resolve the loss fully, lose as 

You MAY spend 1 Spirit to DOUBLE your move for the turn.  
You MUST do this before you start moving. 

Some Virtues or Gear can modify your Move.  Modifiers are 
applied BEFORE doubling.  If your Move value changes after 
you have already begun moving, the change will NOT apply 
until your NEXT turn. 

Moving to an adjacent space takes 1 move.  Spaces on the 
board are adjacent if they share a segment of narrow gold 
border (land) or thick blue border (river).  The river is NOT a 
space, just a border.  NOTHING (skulls, Foes, other Heroes, 
etc.) on the board prevents or stops movement. 

HEROIC ACTIONS – There are 3 different Heroic Actions – 
Cleanse, Battle, and Quest.  You may take only ONE of these 
Heroic Actions per turn.  BEFORE you take the Battle or 
Quest action, calculate the number of Advantages you have 
available. 

IMPORTANT – After you complete a Heroic Action, GAIN 2 
Spirit from the supply. 

A.)  CLEANSE – Take the Cleanse Action to REMOVE skulls 
from a building on your space.  Remove ALL skulls from the 
building and return them to the supply.  Unless you have an 
ability that allows otherwise, you CANNOT Cleans in a space 
without skulls. 

B.)  BATTLE – Take the Battle Action to battle a Foe on your 
space and remove them from the board.  You can only take 
the Battle Action on a space with a Foe.  If there is more 
than one Foe on your space, choose one. 

Advantages – You can spend Advantages to improve battle 
cards or dungeon rooms.  When you begin a battle or enter 
a dungeon, calculate your automatic Advantages (black).  
You CAN spend the cost to gain conditional Advantages 
(gray) IN THE MIDDLE of a battle or dungeon, if needed. 

If you gain an item in the middle of a battle or dungeon, you 
IMMEDIATELY gain any automatic Advantages it gives AND 
you can use them in the SAME action.  If you lose an item in 
the middle of a battle or dungeon that gave you an 
automatic Advantage, you DO NOT lose that Advantage for 
that battle or dungeon. 

You can spend UP TO 10 Advantages in a single Heroic 
Action.  Spending Advantages is different than spending 
items.  When you spend an Advantage, you DO NOT return 
the item that granted it.  Unspent Advantages are lost when 
the Heroic Action is over.  Occasionally, you will need to 
spend Advantages to complete a monthly quest.  Calculate 
them as normal and then spend them all at once to 
complete the quest. 

Starting the Battle – Calculate your automatic Advantages.  
Open the Battle Screen to select a Foe.  Select a number of 
battle cards equal to the Foe’s level.  The app will reveal the 
first selected card.  Many cards will cause you to lose 
Warriors.  Each Foe also has special cards based on their 
traits as well as a unique critical hit card. 

that, you can choose to retreat or continue to the 
next card. 

•  Advantages applied to the Adversary’s battle cards 

remain for future battles. 

C.)  QUEST – Take the Quest Action to complete a quest 
(INCLUDING the Main Goal) or explore a dungeon on your 
space.  You can only take the Quest Action if you can legally 
perform one of these two options. 

Complete a Quest – Quests will require you to be in a 
certain location, spend certain resources, defeat a certain 
Foe, complete a dungeon, etc.  To complete a quest, select 
the quest in the app, then press and HOLD the button.  The 
app will tell you what happens.  Read the outcome aloud, 
gain any rewards indicated, and remove the quest marker 
from the board. 

Completing the Main Goal – The Main Goal is a type of 
quest.  You can complete it just like a normal quest.  
Competing the Main Goal will spawn the Adversary, which 
you will then be able to battle to defeat and win! 

Spending Advantages – You may spend your Advantages to 
improve the revealed battle cards.  To spend an Advantage, 
press the arrow on the bottom of the battle card.  The card 
will change to a better result. 

Explore a Dungeon – Dungeons will spawn as part of certain 
quests.  The goal of each dungeon is to complete it by 
exploring rooms until you find its target room.  Completing 
a dungeon automatically completes its associated quest. 

You can spend (or not spend) Advantages as you like.  Each 
card can be improved until you have the best possible result 
for that card.  You CANNOT undo spent Advantages.  The 
app indicates how many you have spent so far per battle. 

Applying the Results – When you are done spending 
Advantages, follow the instructions in the app to resolve 
the card and see the next card.  Remember, if you cannot 
FULLY resolve the losses from a card, resolve as much as 
you can and then GAIN A CORRUPTION.  Once ALL cards 
have been resolved, that Foe is defeated and the token is 
removed from the board. 

Certain effects let you REMOVE Foes from the board 
WITHOUT battling them.  Open the Foe Status Screen to 
select the Foe to remove.  This is NOT a Heroic Action, so 
you DO NOT gain 2 Spirit.  The Adversary CANNOT be 
removed in this way. 

Batting the Adversary – Once you have completed the Main 
Goal, you can battle the Adversary.  This is just like a normal 
battle with TWO KEY EXCEPTIONS: 

•  You MAY retreat from a battle with the Adversary.  
You MUST resolve AT LEAST ONE battle card.  After 

To Enter the Dungeon, press the Dungeon button and select 
a dungeon to explore.  The app will show the starting room 
and any unexplored room you can enter.  Select one to 
enter.  When you do, the app will reveal what happens in 
the new room. 

You can spend ONE Advantage to improve the results of a 
room.  To do so, press the Improve button.  The room will 
then change to a better result. 

After deciding whether to spend an Advantage, follow the 
app’s instructions to resolve the room.  If you cannot FULLY 
resolve the losses from a room, resolve as much as you can 
and GAIN A CORRUPTION.  That room is now clear and you 
decide whether to explore a new room or leave the 
dungeon. 

If you clear the target room, you have completed the 
dungeon (gain 2 Spirit as with any Heroic Action).  If you 
leave the dungeon, the rooms you cleared will REMAIN 
CLEARED the next time ANY Hero explores that dungeon. 

REINFORCE 
Once per turn, you may Reinforce at a space with a building.  
Each building has something you can gain for free and an 
enhanced option that costs Spirit. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Citadel – Gain 1 Potion (draw from deck) for free 
OR spend 5 Spirit to gain 1 Virtue (flip one of your 
inactive Virtues face up). 

•  Sanctuary – Gain 1 Spirit for free (from supply) OR 
spend 5 Spirit to remove ALL of your Corruptions 
(return to bottom of deck in any order). 

•  Village – Gain 6 Warriors for free (from supply) OR 
spend 1 Spirit to gain 12 Warriors (from supply). 
•  Bazaar – Gain 1 Gear for free (choose 1 from gear 

stacks) OR spend 2 Spirit to gain 1 Treasure (choose 
1 from market). 

Haggle Die – Before you Reinforce, you can CHOOSE to roll 
the Haggle Die.  The result will affect the Reinforce action 
and may even CANCEL it!  You then take your Reinforce 
Action (if not canceled) and THEN apply the result of the 
Haggle Die. 

END OF TURN 
At the end of your turn, you MUST take a skull from the 
supply and drop it into the Tower (while on the Main Menu 
of the app).  If you cannot drop a skull because the supply is 
empty, the Heroes LOSE! 

Events fall broadly into these categories: 

•  Foes Strike:  Foes will move and/or strike out.  This 
event is skipped if NONE of that Foe is on the 
board. 

•  Foes Spawn:  Foes spawn on the board. 
•  Foes Grow in Power:  Foes change statue to 

become more lethal.  This event is skipped if NONE 
of that Foe is on the board. 

•  The Tower Stirs:  The Tower rotates or a seal on the 

Tower is removed. 

•  The Tower Acts:  The Adversary strikes out from 

within the Tower. 

•  Companion Events:  Companions reveal various 

good events. 

•  New Wares:  Players may replace Treasures in the 

market. 

When an event tells you to remove a seal, remove the one 
indicated by the GLOWING LIGHTS.  If skulls emerge when 
the Tower rotates or a seal is removed, PLACE THOSE 
SKULLS AS NORMAL. 

After resolving any events, the next player’s turn begins. 

When you drop a skull, it might emerge from the Tower, 
cause a level to rotate, or cause events to occur.  If skulls 
emerge, place them FIRST, THEN resolve events. 

END OF THE GAME 
Losing the Game – You lose the game IMMEDIATELY if any 
of the following happens: 

➢  A Hero would gain their 3rd Corruption. 
➢  When the 6th month ends. 
➢  You must take a skull from the supply and there are 

none. 

If you lose the game, press the Game Lost button on the 
main screen of the app. 

Winning the Game – You win the game if you complete the 
Main Goal AND defeat the Adversary. 

When you complete the Main Goal, the Adversary will 
spawn on the board, allowing you to battle it like any Foe.  
Once you defeat the Adversary, you WIN! 

Placing Skulls – When a skull (or skulls) tumble out of a 
Tower opening, it MUST be placed on a building in the 
kingdom where it EMERGED – even if is stops in a 
DIFFERENT kingdom. 

Each player decides where to place skulls that emerge in 
their home kingdom.  The player who dropped the skull into 
the Tower decides where to place any skulls that emerge in 
dormant kingdoms. 

If a building would receive its FOURTH skull, it is destroyed.  
Remove the building and the THREE skulls on it from the 
game.  The FOURTH skull that would have been placed on 
it RETURNS to the supply.  The player whose home 
kingdom the destroyed building was in GAINS A 
CORRUPTION.  If the destroyed building was in a dormant 
kingdom, NO ONE gains a Corruption. 

EVENTS 
Events happen at the end of most player turns.  The app will 
alert you.  Read the event aloud and follow its instructions, 
with the player who dropped the skull into the Tower 
making any choices required.  Once the event is resolved, 
press Confirm.  Repeat as needed for each event. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

