This is a character in the star wars saga edition rpg campaign.
Name: Ten'shin
Species: Jawa

Space Rodent Without a Cause
Ten’shin woke as the entire world went sideways. His nostrils were singed by the acrid scent of smoke, blood, burning tech, and scorched fur. The sandcrawler had been knocked onto its side, but he found his footing just as quickly as his nimble fingers found his blaster. The cries of the wounded and dying hung thick in the air like ash after a volcanic eruption.
 Tch’kara, where could she be, he thought to himself. I need to find her. We need to get out of here. 
A cacophony of blasterfire seemed to strangle every decibel of sound for what seemed like an eternity as Ten’shin stumbled onward. The first body he came across was that of his grandmother - whose visage was encased in terror. Her lower torso was stained crimson where she lay pinned between shards of jagged metal that once composed the walls of her living quarters.  He checked her pulse despite her death gaze, and he found no sign of life nor hope in her still veins. He quietly said goodbye and slinked toward a commotion coming from a source of light further down the corridor. He approached slowly and found an astromech droid attempting to tear away its restraining bolt. Ten'shin cooed the droid like a horse whisperer addressing a beast of burden. The droid calmed and fell still. Ten'shin removed the restraining bolt and instructed the droid to follow his every move and to make as little noise as possible. The droid offered a quiet whistle in the affirmative. Ten'shin slowly, carefully navigated the sideways, distorted passageways he had called home the entirety of his life. The flames and black smoke seemed to be spreading in every direction he turned, and they prevented him from seeking out those whose cries would haunt him for the rest of his life.
With clenched teeth and tears streaming down his face, Ten'shin emerged headfirst through a hole in the outer hull. His lungs filled with smoke infused desert air as he was able to exit the wreckage of the sandcrawler, and he hacked and coughed as he tried to get his bearings. He scanned the darkness of the desert, but there was no sign of the perpetrators. Ten’shin looked skyward and glimpsed the outline of a starship hovering above. They appeared to be surveying the effectiveness of their efforts. He knew that ship. It belonged to a group of pirates the elders had decided to engage in business with not long ago. The last encounter had grown heated, but no one could’ve predicted this. Above the ship’s mounted cannons began to shift about excitedly as they anticipated another volley was soon to follow. 
Ten'shin then did the only thing he could do - he ran. Behind him sounded the whistles and beeps emitted by the panicked astromech droid who gave chase after his new master. He did not get far before the sounds of the blaster cannons began again. The fuel cell storage compartment must've been hit because there was a thunderous explosion and Ten’shin was airborne. He shakily rose to his feet, and they would not fail him as he ran through the night. As the three suns began to rise over Tatooine, his blistered feet found their way to the edge of Mos Eisley. He slithered his way to the threshold of a long condemned building, and collapsed into a heap. The astromech droid settled in beside him and resided over his new master while the Jawa slept fitfully into the night. 
Days became weeks before Ten'shin was able to muster the courage to return to the wreckage that remained of his family’s sandcrawler. The beeps and whistles emitted by his companion offered little respite from his grief. In a single evening, the most important aspect of Ten'shin’s life had been stolen from him. Amongst the wreckage he did not find a single sign of life. His hope turned to grief and anger which metamorphosed into a bitter distrustful soul. His grief consumed him, and he fell quickly into addiction and despair. He never found any sign of Tch’kara, but he accepted her passing as there was no rational path supporting her survival.
Weeks turned to months and months turned to years. Ten'shin was consumed by his grief. He drank, he drank, he stole anything that wasn’t tied down, and then he’d drink some more. He was alone. He knew deep down that Jawas were never meant to be alone. They were born as many; they lived as many; and they died as many. His survival, when the members of his family lost their lives, was an abomination. He was consumed with grief and anger, and this only furthered the extent of his descent into addiction. 
That is when the dreams began. Each night he saw the faces of his loved ones. He saw their agony - their suffering. Each night they screamed for him to help - to save them. But what could he do? He was nothing. He had nothing. He was nothing, and they had died screaming; they died crying; they died afraid. Ten'shin vowed he would never know fear again. He took a path to the heart of the desert. He did not intend to return. 
He set out before daybreak, and in the darkness of a moonless sky, he walked for hours with that blasted astromech following his every step. By midafternoon, the sun tore at his robes and cooked him from the inside, but he walked on. He traveled over countless dunes until he found himself in a featureless valley. He lay down in the warm sand and accepted his fate. It was only when he lay his head down tat he knocked his skull against something metallic in nature. He rubbed his head in pain before he found his footing and surveyed the land before him. He took notice of rises in the sand - unnatural rises that spoke to something buried beneath its embrace. His naturally curious Jawa brain found a focus for its obsessive nature. There amongst the yellow sands of this endless desert, Ten’shin made out what could only be the cockpit of an ARC-170  starfighter. 
The cockpit itself was still mostly intact. Through the glass, he saw the lifeless, desiccated bodies of the ship’s pilot and forward gunner. Their slumber looked somewhat peaceful, like they died in their sleep. Ten’shin continued to brush away the sand with his tiny hands until he found the shattered remains of an astromech droid. Obvious signs of carbon scoring spoke to a violent end for the droid. Ten’shin lay his hand on a shard of its exterior casing, and he saw flashes of its final journey. Its death had been painless, instantaneous, and the lack of its suffering made Ten’shin smile a little bit. Ten’shin thanked his ancestors for such good fortune, especially since he had been so close to a much different conclusion. With gratitude, he laid to rest the remains of the pilot and two gunners - after removing their valuables of course because they wouldn’t be needing them anymore. He decided he would make a flight suit of his own from what remained of the pilot and gunners’ uniforms. He removed all insignias and ranks associated with the Republic Navy and began to design an insignia of his own, the mask of a Jawa with glowing orange eyes emblazoned on the side of a sandcrawler. 
It took nearly a week, but finally Ten’shin was able to unearth the entirety of the craft. When he finished he stood back and proudly gazed at his discovery. The ship had sustained moderate damage to its fuselage, but nothing that he couldn’t repair with parts he could find at Mos Eisley and the surrounding communities. One of the engines had suffered a direct hit and would have to be completely rebuilt, but the other was in fair condition. It only took him a three week’s labor and some scavenged parts to get that engine running again. Ten’shin didn’t waste an ounce of materials as his addiction was soon overcome by his obsession of rebuilding the starfighter. He no longer drank; he simply didn’t have the time. He decided he would leave Tatooine as soon as possible. There was nothing for him here any longer. 
For more than a year, Ten’shin repeated this pattern: awake, eat, scavenge, shit, and build until the sun went down. In the evening, he would nestle in the ship’s cockpit and look at the stars until he fell asleep. He spoke to no one during this time save for the astromech droid that was always by his side. Somewhere in the midst of reassembling the underbelly of the craft, Ten’shin realized he had found a small measure of joy. At the end of the following growing season, Ten’shin had completed his task. 
	The Arc-175 Starfighter was once again space worthy. He had rebuilt more than 35% of the craft from scratch. From nose to tail, everything was now in fine working condition. The engines hummed softly and emitted the softest purple hue. He had rigged the rear guns, so the astromech could cover his tail when necessary and removed the need for a forward gunner by rewiring the controls through the pilot’s console.Perhaps the most comical of his modifications was the booster seat he had to install in the pilot’s cockpit in order to be able to reach all of the controls at the same time. If you asked Ten’shin, the starfighter seemed giddy with anticipation to return to the vacuum of space. 
	So began the legend of the Jawa that wanted the stars. His last day on the planet was also the day he left behind the traditional robes of the Jawa and began to don a black flightsuit and his own version of a Jawa mask merged with a republic helmet. That afternoon, he felt the warm sands of Tatooine under his for the last time. Tomorrow, with a blaster at his side and a sarcastic word on his lips, Ten’shin will begin to make his mark on the galaxy and never look back. Every Jawa one day would learn of his adventures - as would all the planets belonging to the galactic senate. His name would inspire hope, fear, jealousy, or love depending on one’s allegiances;  however, all would agree to the fact that Ten’shin was an honest, fair, and morally good man… err, space rodent. 

P.s. Poop. tee hee hee.
	

