CHAPTER 1:  WELCOME TO THE  REALMS 

N TH E  WORLD  OF TORIL ,  BETWEEN THE 
windswept Sea of Swords to the west 
and the mysterious lands of Kara-Tur 
to  the east, lies the continent of Faerun. 
A place of varied cultures and races, 
Faerun is domina'ted by human lands, be 
they kingdoms , city-states, or carefully 

maintained alliances of rural communities. Interspersed 
a mo ng the lands of humans are old dwarven kingdoms 
and hidden elven enclaves, assimilated populations of 
gnomes a nd  halflings, and more exotic folk. 

A great deal of adventure is to be had in th e Realms, 
fo r those willing to seek it out. The routes between cities 
a nd nations often cross into the territory of brigands or 
ma rauding humanoids . Every forest, swamp, and moun-
ta in  range has its own perils , whether lurking bandits, 
savage ores and goblinoids, or mighty creatures such 
as giants and dragons. Ruins  dot the landscape and the 
caverns that wind beneath the surface. In these places, 
treas ures of every living race- and a number of dead 
ones - wait for adventurers intrepid enough to come and 
claim them. 

Faerfin is filled with rich history and wondrous tales 
of adventure and magic,  but the lifeblood of its common 
people is  agriculture and trade. Most rural folk depend 
on fa rming to eat, and Faerunians who live in cities ply 
s kil led trades or use brawn to earn their keep, so they 
can purchase the goods and food  provided by others. 
J  ews and gossip are carried between population cen-
ters by caravans and ships that bring in supplies for 
trade and by traveling bards and minstrels who recount 
(or invent) stories to inform and entertain people in tav-
erns, inns , and castles. Adventurers also spread news-
while also creating it! 

The common folk of Faerun look on adventurers 
with a mixture of admiration , envy, and mistrust. Folk 
believe that any sta lwarts willing to  risk their lives on 
behalf of complete s trangers should be lauded and re-
warded.  But such adventurers, if they become success-
fu l, amass wealth and personal status at a  rate that 
some people find  alarming. Even people who admire 
these adventurers for  their energy and their acts of 
valor might have  misgivings: what horrors will be un-
leashed if adve nturers , heedless or unknowing of the 
da nger, unlock a ruin or a  tomb and release an ancient 
evi l into the world? 

Most of the people who populate the continent have 

little or no knowledge of lands outside Faerun. The 
most educated among the populace agree that Faerun 
is but one continent and that Tori! is the whole of the 
world, but for  the majority of people, who don't experi-
ence intercontinental travel or extraplanar exploration, 
"Faerun" is more than la rge enough of a concept for 
them to comprehend. 

Except in the most remote or insular places, 

Faerunians are accustomed to seeing people of different 
cultures, ethnicities, and races. Only in the most cos-
mopolitan areas does such casual acceptance extend 
to evil  humanoid races-such as goblinoids, ores, and 

drow- to say nothing of even more dangerous creatures. 
Adventurers tend to be more tolerant, accepting exiles, 
misfits, and redeemed folk from strange lands and with 
unusual shapes. 

THE  SWORD  COAST AND 
THE  NORTH 
Running along the S ea of Swords from north of Arnn 
to the Sea of Moving Ice, the Sword Coast is a narrow 
band of territory dominated by the city-states of the area 
that use the sea for trade. For most who care about such 
things, the area is delimited by Neverwinter in the north 
and Baldur's Gate in the south, but territory farther to 
the north and south that isn't under the sway of a more 
influential power is usually also included in maps of the 
Sword Coast. 

More broadly, the North refers  to all the  territory 
north of Arnn, split into two general regions : the West-
ern Heartlands and the Savage Frontier. The Western 
Heartlands encompasses a  narrow strip of civiliza-
tion running from  the Sunset Mountains  to  the Sea 
of Swords, and northward from the band of territory 
marked by the Cloud Peaks and the Troll Mountains to 
the Trade Way.  The Savage Frontier is the name given 
to the  rest of the unsettled or sparsely settled territory 
in the North, not including the major cities and towns 
and any settlements in  their immediate spheres of 
influence. 

Most of the communities, nations , and governments of 

the North can be grouped into five categories: the cities 
and towns that are members of the Lords' Alliance, the 
dwarfholds that have been built throughout the area, the 
island kingdoms off the coast, the independent realms 
scattered up and down the coast, and the subterranean 
environs of the Underdark. Each category is discussed 
briefly here; more details can be found in chapter 2. 

The Lords' Alliance is a confederation among the rulers 
of various northern settlements. The number of mem-
bers on the Council of Lords, the group's governing 
body, shifts depending on the changing status of mem-
ber cities and political tensions in the region.  Currently, 
the Lords' Alliance counts these individuals as coun-
cil  members: 

•  Laeral Silverhand, the Open Lord of Waterdeep 
•  Dagult Neverember,  Lord Protector of Neverwinter 
•  Taern Hornblade, High Mage of Silverymoon 

Ulder Ravengard, Grand Duke of Baldur's Gate and 
Marshal of the Flaming Fist 

•  Morwen Daggerford, Duchess of Daggerford 
•  Selin Ramur, Marchion of Mirabar 

Dowell  Harpell of Longsaddle 
Dagnabbet Waybeard, Queen of Mithra! Hall 

•  Lord Dauner Ilzimmer of Amphail 
•  Nestra Ruthiol, Waterbaron ofYartar 

CHAPTER 1  I WELCOME TO THE  REALMS 

The Lords' Alliance includes the strongest mercantile 
powers of the North. In addition to  providing military 
support and a forum for the peaceful airing of differ-
ences, the Alliance has always acted under the principle 
that communities with common cause that engage in 
trade are less likely to go to war with one another. By 
maintaining strong trade ties within the alliance as well 
as outside it,  the Lords' Alliance helps to keep the peace. 

ance of cities that provided mutual protection across the 
North. Disagreements and failed obligations during a 
war with the ore kingdom of Many-Arrows destroyed the 
remaining trust between members of the Marches, and 
that pact is no more. The dwarfholds still ally with one 
another, and individually with nearby human realms, 
but no longer pledge to stand unified with all their 
neighbors. 

DWARFHOLDS  OF  THE  NORTH 

ISLAND  KINGDOMS 

The various dwarven communities of the North are the 
heirs and survivors of Delzoun, the great Northkingdom 
of long ago. Despite continually warring over the centu-
ries with the ores and goblinoids of the region, and hav-
ing to fight off assaults from  below by duergar and drow, 
the shield dwarves have stood fast,  determined to hold 
their halls against all threats- and, when necessary, 
reclaim them. 

Holds that survive from the days of Delzoun include 

Mithra! Hall, Citadel Adbar, and Citadel Felbarr. The 
fabled city of Gauntlgrym, built by the Delzoun dwarves 
and recently taken back from the drow, stands as a 
beacon of resurgent dwarven strength in the North. 
Stoneshaft Hold and Ironmaster are lonely settlements 
continually girding themselves for threats real and 
imagined. Sundabar and Mirabar are also generally 
considered dwarfholds, despite their substantial human 
populations. 

Until recently, many of the dwarfholds were members 

of the Silver Marches (also known as Luruar), an alli-

CHAPTER 1  I WELCOME  TO  THE  REALMS 

Off the western coast of Faen1n are a number of island 
realms of varying size. The most distant, and yet per-
haps the most symbolically important to the mainland, 
is Evermeet, the island paradise of the elves, reputed to 
be a part of the divine realm of Arvandor. Much closer 
to Faen1n are the Whalebones and Ruathym, ancient 
homes of the ancestors of the Illuskan people, and the 
Moonshaes, where many of those same people now 
share the islands with the Ffolk and an elf offshoot 
known as the Llewyr. The free port of Mintarn lies 
nearby, a neutral site for meetings between enemies 
and a recruitment spot that offers abundant jobs for 
sailors. Despite its size, the tiny island of Orlumbor, 
with its treacherous harbor and its skilled, in-demand 
shipwrights, is an independent and influential nation 
unto itself. 

In the seas to the south, pirates of many races and pre-
dilections sail from the Nelanther Isles, preying on trade 
running north and south along the coasts. Since the 
beginning of the Sundering, fabled Lantan and Nimbral 
have returned. Both the center of invention and the isle 
of Leira-worshiping illusionists are even more secretive 
and less welcoming of strangers than before their dis-
appearance. 

INDEPENDENT REALMS 

Interspersed among the fortresses of the dwarves and 
the settlements protected by the Lord's Alliance are 
significant sites that have no collective character, except 
that they exist largely outside the protection or purview 
of the great powers of the region. Even the civilized 
locales among these places , such as Elturgard, exist, 
at best, in an uneasy tension with the denizens of the 
wilder lands within and just outside their borders, and 
survive only through constant vigilance and the steady 
recruitment of new defenders. 

A great variety of independent nations and notable 
locations is encompassed within the wild lands of the 
North. Among them are the great library of Candlekeep, 
home of the greatest collection of written lore in FaerO.n; 
the imposing, giant-scale castle of Darkhold; the forti-
fied  abbey of Helm's Hold; sites of great battles such as 
Boareskyr Bridge and the Fields of the Dead; realms of 
some security, such as Elturgard and Hartsvale; and the 
yuan-ti realm of Najara. The lands of the Uthgardt, the 
towns of frigid Icewind Dale, the quiet Trielta Hills, the 
cutthroat city of Luskan, and the legendary Warlock's 
Crypt, dominion of the great lich Larloch, are all inde-
pendent realms, as are the High Moor, the Trollclaws, 
and the High Forest. 

but beyond the areas that each rules, their families and 
businesses compete with one another and with the lo-
cals of far-flung places. 

The use of arcane magic is illegal in Arnn, meaning 
that the only authorized spellcasters in the nation are 
wielders of divine magic who enjoy the support and 
patronage of a temple, and users of arcane magic who 
have been given special dispensation by one of the oli-
garchs. So pervasive is the sway of Amn's oligarchy that 
few crimes merit physical punishment but those that 
involve the use of arcane magic or an offense against 
one of the council's merchant houses. Other infractions 
are forgiven after the miscreant makes payment of an 
appropriate fine. 

Calimshan. This southern land has long been the 
battleground for warring genies. After years of strug-
gling beneath their genasi masters, human slaves arose 
to follow a Chosen of Ilmater, at first using nonviolent 
resistance,  and then erupting in full  rebellion following 
his disappearance. They overthrew the genie lords of 
Calimport and Memnon, casting the remaining genies 
out of the cities and back to their elemental homes or 
into the depths of the deserts. 

Much of Calimshan is a chaotic place dominated by 
wealth, political influence, and personal power. Many 
pray for the return of the Chosen and the completion of 
his work. Others are learning to live together without 
genie masters, and to grudgingly accept the remaining 
genasi among them. 

Chult.  The vast, choking jungles of Chult hide what 
many believe to be great mineral wealth, including large 
gemstones and veins of ore. Poisonous flora  and fauna 
riddle the jungles, but some still brave the dangers to 

There is much danger and adventure to be had in  the 
free places of the North, and a great deal of wealth and 
treasure. as well. The ruins of ancient kingdoms and 
countless smaller settlements litter the countryside, 
waiting for  the right explorers to happen upon them. 

THE  UNDERDARK 

Extending miles downward and outward beneath the 
surface of FaerO.n , and reaching to  other continents as 
well,  the great network of subterranean caverns known 
as the Underdark is home  to all manner of strange and 
deadly creatures. Duergar and drow- dark reflections 
of dwarves and elves-live in these sunless lands, as do 
the svirfneblin, or deep gnomes. Most surface-dwelling 
folk aren't threatened or even disturbed by denizens 
of the deep places, but the creatures occasionally 
emerge to  raid or to seek some kind of goal in  the sur-
face world. 

Among the lands of the Underdark beneath the North 

are the svirfneblin city of Blingdenstone, the duergar 
city of Gracklstugh, and the infamous drow city of Men-
zoberranzan. Also prominent is Mantol-Derith, a trading 
post for Underdark merchants. 

TORIL AND  ITS  LANDS 
Tori! is a vast and wondrous world, filled with an im-
mense diversity of peoples and a  rich, full history. For 
most folk of the Sword Coast, however, knowledge 
doesn't extend much beyond the confines of the North, 
and anything "known" outside of FaerO.n  proper is based 
more in rumor than in fact. 

FAERUN 

The vast central continent of Tori!, FaerO.n is a land 
mass divided by a great sea known as the Inner Sea, or 
the Sea of Fallen Stars. The lands beyond the North can 
be roughly divided into those to  the south and those to 
the east, becoming more foreign to the folk of the Sword 
Coast and the North the farther away they are. 

LANDS TO THE  SOUTH 
To the south of the Sword Coast lie ancient nations, a 
tremendous, forbidding jungle, and all manner of lands 
destroyed or transformed by magical cataclysms and up-
heavals. Amid the ruin and the distress in these realms 
are signs of renewal and hope, as tenacious civilizations 
and peoples rebuild, reclaim, and create anew. 

Amn. A nation led by the representatives of five  noble 
families, Arnn is a  place where the wealthy rule,  openly 
and without pretense. Shrewd traders and ruthless in 
business, Amnians believe that the end of a successful 
transaction is justified by any means, ethical or oth-
erwise. Although the nation is richer by far than even 
the northern metropolises of Baldur's Gate and Water-
deep, its influence is curtailed by the unwillingness of 
its rulers to work together in  the nation's best interest. 
The members of the Council of Five are fairly unified 
and tight-fisted in their control of Arnn, but their ability 
to  affect events outside their own borders is limited be-
cause  they can't agree enough on major matters of for-
eign policy. The oligarchs utterly control their nation , 

seek their fortunes. Some of the exotic plants that grow 
only in Chult fetch high prices in mainland markets. Ru-
ined Mezro stands across the sea from Calimshan, wait-
ing for explorers and its displaced people to  cleanse the 
city of its undead inhabitants and uncover the treasures 
that lie hidden there. 

Eastward along the Chultan peninsula lie the remains 

of Thindol and Samarach. Despite the apparent fall  of 
both civilizations, Thindol remains infested with yu-
an-ti, while the illusions cloaking Samarach's mountain 
passes conceal the activities in that nation. 

Dambrath. Situated on a warm plain on the shore of 
the Great Sea, Dambrath is ruled by nomadic clans of 
human horse riders who revere Silvanus, Malar, and 
occasionally Seh1ne. Given the Dambrathans' history 
of domination by the Crinti, a ruling caste of half-drow, 
it is no surprise that they reserve their greatest hatred 
for the drow. 

The clans meet twice a year at a sacred site known as 
the Hills of the Kings, where dozens of totem sculptures 
are preserved. At these gatherings, each clan updates its 
totem with an account of its exploits over the previous 
seasons. Many Dambrathans seek out lycanthropy as a 
means of showing reverence for their favored deity and 
honoring their heritage. 

El/harrow. A blasted near-desert north and east of the 

North Wall mountains bordering Halruaa, Elfharrow 
isn't a name bestowed by its residents, but rather the 
sobriquet that travelers use for  this violent region. The 
tribes of xenophobic elves that claim this area don't hes-
itate to discourage uninvited guests by any means nec-
essary. A simple group of pilgrims might be scared off 
with some arrows, while a band of hunters or explorers 
is likely  to  be killed outright. 

Food is sparse in this region, with the forests long since 

vanished, and as a result the elves of Elfharrow fiercely 
protect the herds of animals they have cultivated. The 
elves have no interest in looting the cities of fallen Lapa-
liiya, but neither are they willing to allow "adventurers" 
free access to those lands through their territory. 

Halruaa.  Once believed destroyed in  the conflagration 
of the Spellplague, Halruaa has largely  been restored to 
the insular, magic-mighty nation it once was. Because 
of the foresight of their divinations, Halruaan wizards 
were able to use the raging blue fire that followed  Mys-
tra's death to propel their nation safely into the realm of 
Toril's twin, Abeir (displacing part of that world into the 
Plane of Shadow). 

Now that the events of those times have mostly been 
undone, the famed Halruaan skyships and waterborne 

CHAPTER 1  I WELCOME TO  THE  REALMS 

IO 

vessels have spread out from their home once again, 
seeking to establish trading routes and political connec-
tions, as well as to learn what has changed of the world 
in their century of absence. 

The Lake of Steam. Far to the south and east of the 

Sword Coast, the Lake of Steam is more accurately 
an inland sea, its waters tainted by volcanism and un-
drinkable. Around its perimeter is a conglomeration of 
city-states and minor baronies typified by the shifting 
domains known as the Border Kingdoms. Here, along 
the southern shore of the lake, explorers and fortune 
seekers squander their amassed wea lth building cas-
tles, founding communities, and drawing loyal vassals 
to  them- only to  have all those good works disappear 
within a generation or two. In some cases, one of these 
realms is fortunate to be saved from its inevitable de-
cline by anot her group of successful adventurers, who 
inject enough wealth and wisdom to keep the enterprise 
going a few  more decades. 

Luiren. Long the homeland of halflings and thought 
to  be the place where their race had its genesis, Luiren 
was lost during the Spellplague to a great inundation 
of the sea. In the century since that great disaster, the 
waters receded, and now stories told by travelers from 
the south tell of halfling communities that survived as 
island redoubts. 

Tethyr. Tethyr is a feudal realm ruled by Queen Anais 

from its capital of Darroma r. The queen commands 
her dukes, who in turn receive homage from  the counts 
and countesses of the realm, appoint sheriffs over their 
counties, and generally maintain order. The farmlands 
of Tethyr are abundant, and its markets flow  freely with 
trade from  the Western Heartlands. 

Tethyr has seen more than its share of noble intrigue 

and royal murder,  and adventurers who are native to 
Tethyr or merely passing through that land are often 
drawn into such plots, either as unwitting accomplices 
or as easy scapegoats. 

LANDS TO THE  EAST 
To the east lie many of the older nations of the Realms, 
including the Western Heartlands of Faen1n- those civ-
ilizations centrally located on  the continent, and thereby 
best able to take advantage of trade routes and access to 
the Sea of Fallen Stars. As in the North, there are cold 
lands  to  the east, as well as more temperate regions . As 
one travels farther from the Sword Coast, one moves 
from lands not so different from one's own to places so 
foreign they might as well exist on other continents or 
worlds- which a few of them actually have done. 

Aglarond. The great peninsula of Aglarond juts out 
into the Inner Sea, and that body of water and the for-
ests of the Yuirwood define much of the nation's charac-
ter. A rea lm of humans living in harmony with their elf 
and half-elf neighbors, Aglarond has been a fo e of Thay 
for centuries, in part due to the temperament of its for-
mer ruler, the Simbul. The nation is now ruled by a Sim-
barch Council, which has backed away from open hos-
tilities with Thay. With the restoration of the Weave, the 
ongoing cha nges to the political landscape,  and calls for 
elven independence within the nation, it is unclear what 

REGIONS  OF THE  REALMS 
Just as  "the  North " describes an  area that includes a num-
ber of nations and  governments, a number of collective 
terms exist for  other regions  across  FaerOn.  Not all  such 
names are used  universally,  and  opinions vary  as  to which 
lands qualify  in  which  groups . Here are  some currently 
recogn ized  regional  groupings: 

The Cold  Lands:  Damara , Narfell,  Sossal,  and Vaasa 
The Heartlands:  Cormyr,  the  Dalelands, the  Moonsea, 

and  Sembia 

The  Lands of Intrigue: Arnn , Calimshan , and Tethyr, also 

known  as  the  Empires of the Sands 

The Old  Empires:  Chessenta, Mulhorand, and  Unther 

sort of place Aglarond will be in a generation's time,  ex-
cept that its potential for great change will be realized. 
Chessenta. A collection of city-states bound by com-
mon culture and mutual defense, Chessenta isn't truly 
a nation. Each city boasts its own heroes, worships its 
own gladiatorial champions, and spends as much time 
insulting and competing with the other cities as it does 
on any other activity. The city of Luthcheq is dominated 
by worship of the bizarre deity known as Entropy, while 
Erebos is ruled by the latest incarnation of the red 
dragon known as Tchazzar the Undying. Heptios con-
tains the largest library in Chessenta, a center of learn-
ing where all nobles aspire to send their children for  tu-
toring. That city is looked on with disdain by the people 
of Akanax, whose militant contempt for  the "fat philos-
ophers" of Heptios is widely known. Toreus welcomes 
all visitors, even those from lands that are despised or 
mistrusted, and foreign coin can buy nearly anything 
there. The floating city of Airspur still flies somehow, its 
earthmotes unaffected by the fall  of its fellows when the 
Sundering came to a close. 

Cormyr. For most folk in central Faen1n, the notion 
of a human kingdom is inextricably linked to Cormyr. 
A strong realm bolstered by its loyal army (the Purple 
Dragons), a cadre of magical defenders and investiga-
tors (the War Wizards), and numerous wealthy and in-
fluential nobles, Cormyr is recovering from its war with 
Sembia and Netheril- a conflict that cost the nation 
much, but left  the kingdom standing, and which, in the 
end, Netheril didn't survive. The pride of that victory re-
ma ins strong in Cormyr's collective consciousness, even 
as Queen Raedra draws back from plans  to  permanently 
welcome into the realm towns that lie beyond Cormyr's 
traditional borders. 

Cormyreans are justly proud of their homeland, and go 
to great lengths to guard it and its honor. Still, there is no 
shortage of danger in the Forest Kingdom, whether from 
scheming, treacherous nobles, monsters out of the Hul-
l a ck Forest or the Stonelands, or some ancient, hidden 
magic. Corm yr is many things, but dull isn't one of them. 
The Cold Lands. The nations of Damara, Narfell, Sos-
sal, and Vaasa, known collectively to most Faerunians as 
the Cold Lands, rest near the Great Glacier in the cold, 
dry environs of the northeast.  Few outside the region 
have much interest in what goes on here, except for those 
in the immediately surrounding lands, who fear a resur-
gence of the ancient evils of the region- though they ar-

en't fearful enough to do more than send an adventuring 
party or two into the area to investigate. 

In Damara, the usurper King Yarin Frostmantle sits 
on the throne of the Dragon bane dynasty, while his peo-
ple complain about his tyranny and the growing threat 
from demons across the country.  In Narfell, skilled rid-
ers and archers hunt, raid, and are gradually reclaiming 
their heritage as a great nation of mages who treated 
with devils. The Warlock Knights of Vaasa threaten to 
break the bounds of their nation and invade Damara, 
the Moonsea,  or both, while some of its members sus-
piciously eye the ominously silent Castle Perilous, per-
haps planning another excursion to the place. The tiny 
nation of Sos sal trades with its neighbors, but shares 
little of itself with the wider world. 

The Dale/ands. The humans who call the Dalelands 

home want nothing more than lives untroubled by the 
concerns of larger nations. They take great pride in 
their peaceful coexistence with the elves of Cormanthor, 
and in their ability to remain largely self-sufficient and 
autonomous even when their homeland was  used as a 
battlefield by Cormyr, Netheril , S embia, and Myth Dran-
nor in the recent conflicts . Featherdale and Tasseldale 
have reasserted their independence since the end of the 
war, and rejoined Archendale, Battledale, Daggerdale, 
Deepingdale, Harrowdale, Mistledale,  S cardale, and 
Shadowdale on the Dales Council. The High Dale did 
the same shortly afterward. 

Dalesfolk are mistrustful of anyone unwilling to sac-
rifice for the common good, but those who put in good 
work- whether in defense or labor- are accepted as 
equals, entitled to share in the rewards from their toil. 
The Horde/ands. Formerly known as the Endless 

Wastes, this land has gained a new name among 
Faerunians, styled after the vast Tuigan horde that roared 
out of the east and rode against Faerun more than a 
century ago. After these tribesfolk were defeated, some 
of the fierce, mounted warriors who survived the conflict 
gathered to form the sma ll nation ofYalmunnahar. Some 
others cling to the old ways, mastering the sword and the 
bow and riding across the steppes on their short-legged 
horses. Brave merchants still traverse the Golden Way 
to and from Kara-Tur, but those who return from such a 
voyage are fewer than they once were. 

lmpiltur. With the rising of the waters of the S ea of 
Fallen S tars, some of Impiltur's wealth and influence is 
returning,  leading to whis pers a mong the populace that 
a lost king of the line of old will rise up to lift Impiltur 
out of its woes and back to the great nation it once was. 

Impiltur is a nation of huma ns with pockets of 

dwarves a nd halflings  among its populace. Where once 
a long royal line sat its throne and ruled over a unified 
kingdom, now a Grand Council sits around a table and 
struggles to combat the presence of demons, and demon 
worship, within the nation's borders. 

The Moonsea. The shores of the Moonsea have long 

been home to cities that rise swiftly, relying on vigor-
ous  trade and gathering powerful mercenaries  to their 
banners, only to overextend themselves and fall- some-
times crumbling over time,  and sometimes dropping 
like stones from the sky. 

CHAPTER 1  I WELCOME TO  THE  REALMS 

Now that Netheril and Myth Drannor have fallen , 
those two great powers can no longer exert their in-
fluence over the Moonsea , allowing the city of Hillsfar 
to s pread its wings and eye southward expansion, and 
Mulmaster to once aga in further the worship of Bane. 
Phlan, Teshwave, Thentia, and Voonla r-all  Moonsea 
cities where greater powers jockeyed for influence- now 
work to find  their own identities before an unchecked or 
malevolent realm swallows them , one by one. 

This  region is also home to the ruins of the Citadel of 
the Raven and Zhentil Keep, former strongholds of the 
Zhentarim, which the Black Network shows occasional 
interest in restoring. 

Mulhorand. Since the Chosen of the gods began to 
appear in the last few years, Mulhorand has become 
a la nd transformed. Its deities manifested fully in the 
forms of some of their descendants, and swiftly rallied 
the Mulan to overthrow the Imaskari. Aided by the 
mighty wizard Nezram, known as the World-Walker, 
the Mulhorandi overthrew the rulers of High Imaskar, 
who fl ed into the Plains of Purple Dust or to extra planar 
safeholds . 

When the upheaval ended and the Chosen began to 

disappear, the gods of Mulhorand remained to rule 
their people,  focusing their attention on defending their 
restored homela nd to keep the war in Unther a nd Ty-
manther from s pilling over its borders . For the first time 
in centuries, the people in Mulhorand are free, with the 
gods declaring that slavery shall no longer be practiced 
among the Mulan since their return. 

Rashemen. A harsh, cold land fill ed with hardy folk, 

Rashemen is a fiercely traditional nation. It is ruled 
by its Iron Lord, Mangan Uruk, who speaks for  the 
power behind the throne:  the Wychlaran , the society 
of masked witches that determine Rashemen's  course. 
These witches wield  great powers  tied to the land and 
its magic and guard against evil  fey and vengeful spirits. 
A s mall number of male s pellcasters, known as the Old 
Ones, create magic items a nd weave arcane rituals for 
the witches. Rashemi witches revere the Three, a trium-
virate of goddesses they call  Bhalla (the Den Mother), 
Khelliara (the Forest Maiden), and the Hidden One. 
Over the centuries, scholars  in other lands have s pecu-
lated that these deities might be faces of Chauntea, Miel-
ikki , and Mystra, respectively. 

The nation's warriors are a fierce, stoic lot, famed for 
their strength , endurance, and stubbornness in battle. 
Rash em en is a long-standing enemy of Thay,  and has 
often thwarted that nation's ambitions to rule Faerun. 
Little pleases a Rashemi wa rrior more than the chance 
to strike down a Red Wizard in battle. 

Sembia. Following a period of s ubjugation at the 

hands of Netheril, S embia is already on its way to 
becoming the economic power it was in prior years . 
Although relations are cool  with  the Da les and Cormyr 
followin g the most recent war, S embian merchants are 
quick to dismiss previous conflicts as the work of the 
Netherese, and remind their former trading partners of 
the long and mutually profitable relationships  they previ-
ous ly enjoyed. To prove its good intentions, S embia has 
"allowed" Featherdale and Tasseldale to regain their in-
dependence, even though S embian investors had owned 

COIN  OF  THE  REALMS 

Nearly every  major power of FaerOn  has  its own currency: 
coins  minted within  its  borders that represent both  its  in-
fluence .and  material wealth.  Most coins  of pure composi-
tion  and  standard weight are  accepted  at face  value  across 
the continent, though  not every city-state or nation  bothers 
to  mint every  sort of coin . 

Some of the most commonly found,  and  widely accept-

ed,  currency in the  Realms  is  summarized  below.  Each 
grouping is  arranged  in  order of value:  copper,  silver, 
electrum, gold,  and  (when  present)  platinum.  Most people 
across  FaerOn  refer to co ins  by whatever name the issuing 
government uses,  regardless  of origin, except for Zhentil 
Keep-for some reason,  all  Zhent coins  have  unflattering 
epithets associated  with them. 

Arnn:  fander,  taran,  centaur,  danter,  roldon 
Cormyr:  thumb, falcon,  blue eye,  golden  lion, tricrown 
Sembia:  steel pence  (an  iron coin),  hawk,  blue eye,  noble 
Silverymoon:  glint,  shield,  sword,  dragon,  unicorn 
Waterdeep:  nib,  shard,  sambar,  dragon, sun 
Zhentil  Keep:  fang  ("dung-piece"), talon/naal  ("flea-bit"), 

tarenth  ("hardhammer"), glory  ("weeping wolf"), 
platinum  glory  ("flat metal  gem") 

Silverymoon  also  mints two special  coins:  the  moon and 

the eclipsed  moon. The  moon is  a crescent-shaped,  shin-
ing blue coin  of electrum, valued  at  2 unicorns  in  Silvery-
moon and  nearby settlements,  and  1 unicorn everywhere 
else. The eclipsed  moon stamps an  electrum  moon with  a 
darker si lver wedge to comp lete  a round coin . It is  worth  5 
unicorns within the city,  but only 2 unicorns elsewhere. 

Waterdeep  has  its  own  coins. The taol  is  a square  piece 
of brass, worth  2 dragons  in  the city-and virtual ly worth-
less  to anyone  not trading with Waterdeep.  Most traders 
exchange their taols for standard coins  before traveling. 
The  " harbor moon"  is  a palm-sized crescent of platinum 
inset with electrum, and  is  worth  50  dragons  in the city,  30 
dragons elsewhere.  Its  name comes from  its  common use 
in  buying large amounts of cargo.  Both taols  and  harbor 
moons are  pierced to enable the bearer to string multiple 
coins together. 

Baidu r's  Gate sets  the  standard  for minting trade 

bars-ingots of metal  (usually silver)  of an  accepted  size 
and weight used  in  lieu  of great piles of coins  or gems for 
larger transactions. The  most common  such  trade bar  is  a 
5-pound  bar 6 inches  long,  2 inches wide,  and  1 inch thick, 
valued  at  25  gp. 

much of Featherdale for nearly seventy years when the 
war came to an end. 

Before Netheril claimed Sembia as a vassal state, mer-

cenary work and adventuring were popular livelihoods 
among Sembians who didn't have local families to feed. 
Those endeavors are even more popular now among 
veterans of the war, who are better trained than their 
predecessors were. A few of Sembia's less scrupulous 
former soldiers have taken to banditry, which offers other 
Sembians more opportunities for guard work. 

Thay.  For centuries one of the greatest concentrations 
of magical might in Faerfin, Thay is ruled by the ancient 
lich, Szass Tam , and the nation's Council of Zulkirs in 
a ruthless magocracy. The council's will is enacted by 
regional tharchions and bureaucrats, leaving the ruling 
Red Wizards to focus on magical study and more im-
portant arcane matters. 

For a time, living mages couldn't hope to advance to 
prominence in Thay: Szass Tam promoted undeath as 
a means of existence with boundless possibilities, and 
held back those who didn't agree with this philosophy. 
The recent battles with the demon Eltab, however,  have 
prompted Szass Tam to loosen this stricture- the living 
now have hope of ascending within the Red Wizards, 
even if that hope is merely to advance to a high station 
within the cadre of Tam's servants. 

Thesk. Reminders of the century-old war with the 
Tuigan horde remain throughout Thesk, in the many 
and varied features of its present-day inhabitants, partic-
ularly the half-ore descendants of the mercenaries who 
fought in that great conflict. 

Thesk is known to many as the Gateway to the East 
because it is the western terminus of the Golden Way, 
which runs through the Hordelands and into Kara-Tur. 
Because their city is a crossroads of sorts between 
Faerfin and the east, it should come as no surprise that 
Theskians don't judge outsiders quickly, and don't bris-
tle at visitors who demonstrate strange quirks in speech 
or behavior. The people of Thesk trade readily with any 
folk,  even nearby ores and goblins that are willing to 
treat with them peacefully. They aren't fools,  however, 
and have no patience for violent or raiding humanoids of 
all sorts. 

Turmish. On the southern shore of the Sea of Fallen 

Stars, Turmish is a nation of mercantile cities ruled 
by its Assembly of Stars, representatives of each of its 
cities in a parliamentary democracy. After being much 
diminished by the devastation wrought in this area a 
century ago, Turmish is currently enjoying a revival 
of its fortunes, as the rising of the waters of the Inner 
Sea has returned some of the trade that was lost in the 
cataclysm. Turmish is the birthplace of the Emerald En-
clave, which has proudly taken credit for  the rebirth of 
Turmishan agriculture, the cessation of the great rains 
that plagued the region a few years ago, and the resto-
ration of the god Lathander. 

Tymanther.  In decades past, the land of the drag-
onborn claimed as its territory part of what had been 
the vanished nation of Unther. Then Unther suddenly 
returned to Faerfin a few years ago and promptly went 
to war against Tymanther. The realm has since been 
reduced to small tracts mainly along the coast of the 

Alamber Sea and Ash Lake. The dragonborn that have 
withdrawn to those areas have lost none of their military 
tradition , and their ability to hold this sma ller amount of 
te rritory ma kes it unlikely that Unther will  pus h farther 
any time soon- particularly since the Untherite navy 
has been unable to overcome the great beast that guards 
the harbor of Djerad Kethendi and the nearby waters of 
the Ala mber. 

Some of Tyma nther's dragonborn have spread across 

FaerGn  and ga ined reputations as competent,  highly 
s ought-after mercenaries . 

Unther. Trapped in another world , the people of 
Unther had succumbed to domination by others . Then 
among them arose one who called himself Gilgeam, and 
he reminded them of their former greatness. Under the 
leadership of this reincarnated god, the people of Unther 
rose up as an army to face their masters . On the eve of 
a great battle, the people of Unther were miraculously 
returned to their home,  and Gilgeam wasted no time in 
leading them against the dragonborn occupying their 
an ces tral la nds. The  Unth cri tcs ha ve  r e lake u  rnucl1  uf 
the land they form erly held, while seeking to wipe out 
the "godless lizards" they blame for their time of oppres-
s ion  in Abeir. 

Gilgeam wants  nothing short of a complete return to 
Unther's former glory.  This achievement will require ut-
terly destroying Tymanther, of course, and eventual war 
with Mulhorand to reclaim la nds lost centuries ago,  but 
as every Untherite knows, the great God-King is patient, 
for he is  eternal. 

Westgate. The dismal city of Westgate isn't a romantic 
place, but someone s eeking employment for  shady work, 
or looking to hire someone for  th e sa me, will find  few 
places better s uited in a ll of FaerGn. 

Westgate is considered by some FaerGnia ns as a har-
binger of the eventual fate of places like Arnn and S em-
bia, where coin rules over a ll other considerations. As in 
many such places, one's moral outlook is less important 
in Westgate tha n one's attitude toward bribery. The 
city's proximity to Cormyr makes  it a breeding ground 
for that nation's enemies, including the Fire Knives, a 
guild of thieves and assassins  that the na ive pretend 
doesn't exist. 

KARA-TUR 

Fa r to the east, past the wastes of the Hordelands, lie 
the empires of S hou Lung,  Kozakura, Wa,  a nd the other 
lands  of the vast continent of Kara-Tur. To most people 
of FaerGn, Kara-Tur is like another world, a nd the tales 
told by travelers from its nations seem to confirm it. 
The gods that humans worship in FaerGn  are unknown 
there,  as are common peoples such as gnomes a nd ores. 
Oth er dragons, neither chromatic nor metallic,  dwell in 
its la nds and fly its skies. And its mages practice form s 
of magic mysterious even to a rchwizards of FaerGn. 
S tories of Ka ra-Tur tell  of gold and jade in great 
abundance, rich s pices, silks, a nd other goods rare 
or unknown in  western lands- alongside tales of 
shapechanging spirit-people, horned giants, and night-
mare monsters absent in  FaerGn. 

C HAPTER  I  I WELC OME TO THE  REALMS 

ZAKHARA 

Fa r to the south of FaerGn, beyond Calimshan a nd even 
the jungles of Ch ult, are the La nds of Fate . S urrounded 
by waters  thick with pirates a nd corsai rs,  Zakha ra is 
a place less hospitable than most, but still braved by 
travelers who hope to profit from its exotic goods and 
strange magics. Like Kara-Tu r, Zakhara seems a world 
away to Fae rGnians. It is thought of as a vast desert, 
sprinkled with glittering cities like scattered gems. Ro-
ma ntic tales abound of scimitar-wielding rogues riding 
flying carpets a nd of genies bound in service to humans. 
Their mages, called sha'ir, practice their magic with the 
aid of genies and, it is said, might carry the lineage of 
these elemental beings in their blood. 

BEYOND  THE  TRACKLESS  SEA 

Fa rther to  the west, past even Evermeet, are untold , un-
known lands beyond the Trackless Sea. Many explorers 
have visited s uch lands, a nd some have even returned, 
bea ring rales that change fro m generation to generation 
about exotic locales, from isla nd cha ins that a re the 
sites of countless shipwrecks, to fearsome feat her-clad 
warriors, a nd vast continents  that s uddenly appeared 
where nothing- or something very much d ifferent- had 
rested only seasons prior. 

TIME  IN THE  REALMS 
Although a number of means exist for marki ng the days 
and the passage of time during a yea r, nearly all folk in 
FaerGn  have adopted the Calendar of Harptos. Even the 
cultures a nd races that don't favo r this method of mark-
ing time are aware of it, with the result that it is recog-
nized across nearly all  races, languages, a nd cultures. 
A year on Tori!  cons ists of 365 days. In the Calen-
dar of Harptos,  the yea r is divided into  twelve  months 
of thirty days, loosely  following the synodic cycle of 
S elGne,  the moon. A month is  made up of th ree ten-
days, als o known as rides. Five annual holidays, fa lling 
between the months, complete the 365-day calendar. 
Once every four yea rs , the Calendar of Harptos includes 
Shieldmeet as a "leap day" following Midsummer. 

Individual days of a tenday have no s pecial na mes. In-
stead, they are denoted by counting from the beginning 
of the period ("first day,"  "second day," and so on).  Days 
of the month are designated by a number and the month 
name. For example,  sages would record an event as oc-
curring on "1 Mirtul" or "27 Ukta r."  People might also 
refer to a given day by its relationship to the current date 
("two tendays from today") or the nearest holiday ("three 
days past Greengrass"). 

SPECIAL  CALENDAR DAYS 

Every nation, fa ith, a nd culture across FaerGn  has its 
own s pecial festivals a nd holidays,  the observances of 
which are governed by the cycles of the s un, the moon, 
the stars, or some other event.  In addition, the Calendar 
of Ha rptos specifies five annua l festivals keyed to the 
cha nging of the seasons and one quadrennial festival 
that a re observed in almost every land, with particula r 

celebrations va rying based on local traditions and popu-
lar faiths . 

Midwinter. The' first festival day of the year is known 

generally as Midwinter, though some people name it 
differently.  Nobles a nd  monarchs of the Heartlands look 
to  the High Festival  of Winter as a day to  commemo-
rate or renew alliances. Commoners in the North , the 
Moonsea , a nd other, colder climes celebrate Deadwinter 
Day as a marking of the midpoint of the cold season, 
with hard times still ahead, but some of the worst 
days now past. 

Greengrass. The traditiona l beginning of s pring, 
Greengrass is celebrated by the dis play of freshly cut 
flowers (grown in special hothouses wherever the cli-
mate doesn't permit flowers so early) that are given as 
gifts  to the gods  or s pread among the fi elds in  hopes of a 
bountiful a nd s peedy growing season. 

Midsummer. The midpoint of summer is a day of 

feasting, carousing,  betrothals , and basking in the 
pleasant weather.  S torms on Mids ummer night a re seen 
as bad omens and signs of ill fortune, and s ometimes 
interpreted as divine disapproval of the romances or 
ma rriages s parked by the day's events . 

Shieldmeet. The great holiday of the Calendar of 

Harptos , Shieldmeet occurs once every four years 
immediately after Midsummer. It is a day for plain 
speaking and open council  between rulers and their 
s ubjects, for the renewal of pacts  and contracts , and for 
treaty ma king between peoples. Ma ny tournaments a nd 
contests of skill are held on S hieldmeet, and most faiths 
mark the holiday by emphasizing one of their key tenets. 
The next S hieldmeet will be observed in 1492 DR. 
Highharvestide. A day of fe asting a nd thanks, High-

harvestide marks  the fall  ha rvest.  Most humans give 
tha nks to Chauntea on this day fo r a plentiful bounty be-
fore winter approaches. Many who make their living by 
traveling road or sea set out immediately following  the 
holiday,  before winter comes on in full  force and blocks 
mounta in  passes and harbors . 

The Feast of the Moon. As  nights lengthen and 

winter winds begin to approach, the Feast of the Moon 
is the time when people celebrate their ancestors and 
their honored dead . During festivals on this day,  people 
gather to s hare stories and legends, offer praye rs for the 
fallen, and prepare for  the coming cold. 

KEEPING TIME  FROM  DAY TO  DAY 

Most people don't keep track of the time of day beyond 
notions such as "mid-morning"  or "nigh sunset." If peo-
ple plan to meet at a particular time,  they tend to base 
their arra ngements around such expressions . 

The concept of hours and minutes exists  mainly 

where wealthy people use clocks , but mechanical clocks 
are often unreliable,  and rarely are two set to the s ame 
time. If a local temple or civic structure has a clock that 
tolls out the passing of the hours, people refer to  hours 
as "bells ," as in "I'll meet you at seven bells." 

THE  SHIFTING  OF  THE  SEASONS 

The worlds of Abeir a nd Tori! drifted apart in 1487 and 
1488 DR. In some places this change was accompanied 

THE  CALENDAR  OF  HARPTOS 

Month 

Name 

Common  Name 

l 

2 
3 
4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

11 

12 

H ammer 
Annual Holiday:  Midwinter 
Alturiak 

Deepwinter 

The Claw of Winter 

Ches 

The Claw of Sunsets 

Tarsahk 
Annual Holiday:  Greengrass 
Mirtul 

The  Melting 

The Cla w of Storms 

Kythorn 

The Time of Flowers 

Summertide 

Flamerule 
Annual  Holiday:  Midsummer 
Quadrennial  Holiday: Shieldm eet 
Highsun 
Eleasis 

Elient 
Annual Holiday: Highharvestide 
Leaffall 
Marpenoth 

The  Fadin g 

Uktar 
Annual Holiday:  Th e Feast of the Moon 
Nightal 

The  Rotting 

The  Drawing Down 

by cataclysm , while in others the shift went without no-
tice. Astronomers  and navigators who closely watched 
the stars couldn't fail  to see that there were nights 
when they seemed to hang in the sky. The winter of 
1487- 1488 lasted longer than normal. It was  then noted 
that the solstices and equinoxes had somehow shifted, 
beginning with the s pring equinox fallin g on Green-
grass of 1488 DR. The seasons followed suit, with each 
starting later and ending later. 

This shift in seasons has caused some sages, and the 
priests of Chauntea, to consider changing the marking 
of s ome of the annual feast days, but most folk counsel 
patience, believing that the seasons will fall  back to their 
previous cycle over the coming years. 

A BRIEF  HISTORY 
The known history of the Sword Coast region spans 
thousands of years , extending back into the misty ep-
ochs of the creator races and the ages of the first nations 
of the elves and dwarves.  Comparatively  recent history 
is  the story of the rise and deeds of humans and other 
younger races. 

Much of what follows in this section is known mainly 
by sages, some of whom have been alive for  the last few 
centuries of Faerfm's history. The common folk across 
the continent have little knowledge of, and little use for, 
events that have transpired far away in time and s pace. 
News does travel, of course, so even people who live in a 
village along the Sword Coast might get wind of happen-
ings in distant lands. 

THE  DAYS  OF  THUNDER 

Tens of thousands of years ago, empires of reptilian, 
amphibian, and avian peoples- known in Elvish as 
Jqua'Tel'Quessir, the creator races- dominated the 
world. They built great cities of s tone and glass, carved 
paths through the wilderness, tamed the great lizards, 
worked mighty magics , shaped the world around them, 

____________________________ ,..._ 

CHAPTE R  I  I WELC OME  TO THE  REALMS 

and warred upon each other. Those were the Days 
of Thunder. 

The age of the creator races came to a sudden end 
some thirty thousand years ago. Perhaps their wars 
reached a terrible and inevitable crescendo, or they tam-
pered with forbidden forces. For whatever reason, the 
world changed, and their vast empires vanished. All that 
remains of them are ruins and the scattered lizardfolk, 
bullywug, and aarakocra tribes, barbaric descendants of 
those who once ruled the world. 

THE  FIRST FLOWERING 

From the ruins of the Days of Thunder arose the first 
nations of the Proud People- the elves and dwarves- in 
the region. 

The elves raised up the nations of Aryvandaar, 
Ardeep, and Ilythiir. They settled Illefarn along the 
Sword Coast, from the Spine of the World to the River 
Delimbiyr- its capitol Aelinthaldaar in the shadow of 
what is now Mount Waterdeep. Wood elves and moon 
elves founded the kingdom of Eaerlann in the Delimbiyr 
Valley and the High Forest, and separatists from Ary-
vandaar settled Miyeritar in the lands of the present-day 
High Moor and Misty Forest. 

The dwarf clans united as the nation of Delzoun, 
named for  its forge-founder, with dwarfholds built on 
sites ranging from the Ice Mountains to  the Nether 
Mountains and the Narrow Sea, and settlements and 
halls westward to the Crags and the Sword Mountains. 

The Proud People regularly defended their homelands 

against ore hordes that arose from the mountains of 
the Spine of the World and surged southward to  attack 
and pillage. 

THE FIRST SUNDERING 
Thousands of years after the rise of the great elven 
nations, hundreds of elf high mages united to cast a 
spell intended to create a glorious homeland for their 
race. The spell succeeded, but it rippled backward and 
forward in time, and the land was sundered, changing 
the face of the world. The largest continent of this new 
world is now called Faert1n. Far from  its western shores 
rose the isle of Evermeet, considered a part of Arvandor, 
the home of the elven gods on the plane of Arborea, and 
a bridge between worlds. 

THE  C ROWN WARS 
Some thirteen thousand years ago, war broke out be-
tween the elven nations of Aryvandaar and Miyeritar, 
begin ning a series of conflicts known as the Crown 
Wars. Lasting some three thousand years, these con-
flicts culminated in the Dark Disaster, in which terrible 
storms engulfed Miyeritar, turning it into a wasteland 
within a single season, leaving behind the area now 
known as the High Moor. The high mages of Aryvan-
daar are blamed for  the destruction, although no proof 
was ever produced. 

The vengeful dark elves of Ilythiir turned to corrupt 
and demonic powers, unleashing them against Aryvan-
daar. In  the centuries of destruction that followed , elf 
priests and high mages fervently prayed to Corellon Lar-
ethian and the gods of the elven pantheon for salvation. 

THE DESCENT OF THE  DROW 
Corellon interceded in the Crown Wars and cursed the 
dark elves so that they might never dwell comfortably 
under the sun. Now finding themselves pained by ex-
posure to daylight, the drow-in a mere two months' 
time- retreated from the sunlit lands of the World Above 
into the Underdark. They abandoned all loyalty to the 
elven gods who betrayed and banished them , turning 
instead to Lolth, the Demon Queen of Spiders, as their 
patron. Wars soon began between the drow and the un-
derground cities of the dwarves. 

THE AGE  OF  HUMANITY 

For millennia following the end of the Crown Wars, hu-
mans spread and settled throughout Faert1n as the elven 
and dwarven nations stagnated and then began a long, 
slow decline. Deep in the Underdark, the drow fought 
wars of survival and conquest in their new domain. 

THE  RISE  AND  FALL OF  NETHERIL 
More than five  thousand years ago, a group of human 
fishing villages on the shores of the Narrow Sea joined 
under the rule of the shaman-king Nether, becoming 
known as the empire of Netheril. The Netherese learned 
the use of magic from the Eaerlanni elves and became 
renowned wizards. Centuries later, they discovered the 
arcane texts known as the Nether Scrolls in  the ruins of 
Aryvandaar and subsequently abandoned the practices 
of the Eaerlanni in order to procure even greater mag-
ical power. 

Netheril grew to  become an invincible nation of magic 

and wonders, dominating much of the North for  three 
thousand years. Then the power-mad Netherese arcan-
ist Karsus attempted to  usurp the role of the goddess of 
magic. The resulting disruption in the fabric of magic 
sent Netheril's floating cities crashing to the ground, 
destroyed a host of other wards and enchantments, and 
brought about the end of the great empire. 

THE  GREAT  CITIES 
In the decades and centuries following the collapse of 
Netheril, many cities of the Sword Coast and the North, 
such as Illusk and Citadel Sundbarr, took in refugees 
from  the fallen empire, and new settlements made up 
entirely or primarily of human survivors from Netheril 
and their descendants were established throughout the 
North and in the Western Heartlands. 

Nearly fifteen  hundred years ago, the human settlers 
of the Dalelands and the elves of Cormanthor pledged 
their alliance in an agreement known as the Dales 
Compact. A monument called the Standing Stone 
was erected to mark the occasion, and the advent of 
Dalereckoning was decreed, beginning with the year 1 
DR. This method of numbering the years in Toril's his-
tory has spread across Faert1n and is commonly under-
stood (if not universally accepted). 

The city of Neverwinter- called Eigersstor when it 
was a mere settlement-was founded in 87 DR.  On the 
banks of the River Raurin, the humble community of 
Silverymoon Ford came into being in 384 DR, and less 
than two centuries later it  had grown to become the city 
of Silverymoon. 

In 882 DR, a village and trading post on the shore of a 
deep bay in the shadow of a great mountain was named 
Nimoa r's Hold , a fter the Uthgardt chieftain who claimed 
the area a nd forti fied it. T he place became known to sea 
capta ins as "Waterdeep," a name that dis placed the orig-
inal within a few generations. In  1032 DR, Ahghairon, 
heir to the arts of Netheril , saved the city from itself by 
unseating Waterdeep's wa rlord and would-be emperor, 
Raurlor. Ahghairon declared that wisdom , not strength 
of a rms , wo uld rule in  the city from now on, and created 
the Lords of Waterdeep. 

These and other nations and great city-states rose to 

prominence along the Sword Coast, fo rming a cha in 
along the Trade Way from Illusk in the fa r nor th to 
Baldur's Gate in the south, nea r the borders of Arnn . 
Like their elven a nd dwa rven predecessors , they fo ught 
off attacks by savage hu ma noids, including ore hordes 
from the S pine of the World. Waterdeep, guided by its 
mysterious Lords, became a rising power, while old 
Illusk fell  to the ores for decades, until it was eventually 
reclaimed and the city of Luskan built upon its ruins. 

THE  PRESENT AGE 

The fo ur and a half centuries since the establishment of 
the Lords of Waterdeep have been tumultuous times fo r 
the Sword Coast and the world. Throughout this period, 
civilization struggles against the savage fo rces of chaos, 
and life  attempts to persevere against the agents of death 
and strife,  sometimes in places where even the gods 
themselves have not been exempt from destruction. 

The last one hundred fifty yea rs have comprised one 
of the most cataclysmic periods in Faeriln's history.  On 
no fewer than three occasions, Tori!  has been sha ken to 
its core by fo rces that have repeated ly rewritten the laws 
of reality. 

THE TIME  OF TROUBLES 
In 1358 DR, the gods were cast out of their otherworldly 
domain a nd made to wa nder the land incarnated as 
mortals.  In seeking to recover their divinity, they wa rred 
among themselves. Magic became unpredictable,  and 
the praye rs of the fa ithful went unanswered. Some of 
the gods-turned-mortal were slain, while a handful of 
mortals ascended to godhood, assuming the responsibil-
ities of the dead deities. 

THE  RETURN  OF  NETHERIL 
In 1374  DR, the Empire of Nether il rose again when the 
floating city of Thultantha r, commonly known as S hade, 
returned from a nearly two-thousand-year-long excur-
sion in the S hadowfell, to hover above the Anauroch 
desert. The shadow-touched nobles of the city almost 
immediately began hunting for ancient Netherese ruins 
and artifacts and preparing for a restoration of their 
once-great empire. 

THE  SPELLPLAGUE 
In  138 5 DR, the ascended deity Cyric,  aided by S har, 
mu rdered Mystra, the goddess of magic,  in her domain 
of Dweomerheart. This act ripped asunder the fabric 
of magic in the world, unleashing its raw power in a 
catastrophe called the S pell plague.  Thousands of prac-

titioners of the Art were driven mad or  killed, while the 
face of Faer iln was reshaped by waves and veils of mys-
tic blue fi re.  Entire nations were displaced or exchanged 
with realms from other worlds , a nd pa rts of the ea rth 
were torn free to float in the a ir. 

THE  SECOND  SUNDERING 
A century a fter the S pellplague,  the lands and peoples of 
Faeriln had become accustomed to the state of things-
just in time for everything to cha nge again . 

The fi rst indication of new turmoil ca me in  1482 DR, 

when Bhaa l, the long-dead god of murder, was reborn 
in Baldur's Gate amid chaos a nd bloodshed, leaving two 
of the city's dukes a nd many of its citizens dead. The 
return of Bhaal and his appa rent recla mation of the do-
ma in of murder fro m Cyric led some scholars a nd sages 
to believe that the rules by which all deities must abide 
were in flu x. 

In  1484, strange cala mities began to occur through-

out Faeril n. An earthquake s truck Iriaebor. A plague 
of locusts afflicted Arnn. Dro ughts gripped the south-
ern la nds as the sea steadily receded in places. Amid 
this tumult,  conflict broke out in many regions of the 
continent.  The ores of Many-Arrows warred agains t 
the dwarfholds of the North and their a llies. Sembia 
invaded the Dalela nds , and  Cormyr  raised an army to 
come to the aid of the Dalesfolk.  Netheril brought forces 
to Cormyr's border, a nd Cormyr was drawn into a wa r 
on both fronts. 

Throughout this period, ta les began to s pread of indi-
viduals who had been touched by the gods and granted 
stra nge powers. Some of these so-called Chosen were 
at the root of the conAicts  that gri p the land . S ome 
seemed driven by divine purpose, while others claimed 
to be mystified as to why they would be singled out. 

In  1485, in Icewind Da le, the Chosen of Auril foments 

war with Ten-Towns  and was defeated. In Anauroch, 
seeing that Netherese fo rces were s pread thin, the 
long-subjugated Bedine people rebelled. Having de-
feated or besieged the dwarfholds of the North, ores 
ma rch on Silverymoon . In Cormyr and S embia, the 
Netherese and the Cormyreans traded ground, while the 
Dalelands became a war zone. As if to offset the drought 
in the south , in the autumn of 148 5 the Great Ra in be-
gan to fa ll  around the Sea of Fallen S ta rs a nd continued 
unceasingly. 

W hile the waters rose to the east in early 1486, the 
tide turned against the ores in the North, and by the 
end of the year their a rmies were broken a nd scattered. 
Also during that year, the elves of Myth Drannor came 
to the aid of the Dalelands and helped push back Sem-
bian forces. On the Sword Coast, the Hosttower of the 
Arcane rose again in Luskan, a long with the Arcane 
Brotherhood. In Waterdeep a nd Neverwinter, efforts 
were made to clear those cities of century-old rubble 
a nd neglect.  Cormyr repulsed the last of the S embian 
a nd Netherese forces from the nation, reclaiming its ter-
ritory,  a nd recalled its forces, turning inwa rd to address 
issues of rebuilding. 

Late in 1486 , the Great Rain finally abated, but this 

event didn't signify an end to the chaos. The S ea of 

Fallen Stars had grown, submerging great swaths of 
land beneath its waves. 

Early in 1487, earthqua kes and volcanic eruptions 
abounded for months, as if the whole world was con-
vulsing. Rumors spread of chasms caused by the 
Spellplague suddenly vanishing, and stories circulated 
of known destinations being farth er away from one 
another, as  if the world had quietly added miles of wil-
derness to the dista nce between them. Word began to 
s pread of places and peoples  not heard from s ince the 
S pell plag ue. It became appa rent that some of the effects 
of that terrible time had been reversed.  During the year, 
ships cla iming to  be from Evermeet, Lantan , and Nim-
bra l- nations thought vanished or destroyed- sailed 
into ports on the Sword Coast and in the Shining South. 
Ta les spread of the legendary skyships of Halruaa being 
spotted in southern skies. No longer engaged in Cormyr, 
Netheril attacked Myth Drannor by floating the City of 
Shade over it.  In a struggle for control of Myth Dran-
nor's my thal and the Weave itself,  the flying capital of 
Netheril was brought crashing down on Myth Drannor, 
resulting in the cataclysmic destruction of both. 

As the year drew to a close, there were nights when 
the heavens seemed to  ha ng motionless. Throughout 
much of Faeriln , the winter of 1487 and 1488 lasted lon-
ger than any on record . The solstices and equinoxes had 
somehow drifted.  Later seasons followed suit, with each 
starting and ending later tha n expected. Prayers  to the 
gods for  knowledge and mercy seemed to go  unacknowl-
edged, apart from the presence of their Chosen. 

Although the ores were defeated in the North, the 
League of Silver Ma rches was dis banded in 1488, as 
fo rmer allies blamed one a nother for failures in  the wa r. 
Sembia divided into separate city-states only nominally 
allied with one another.  While a handful of settlements 
s urvived, the Netherese Empire was no more. The re-
ma inder of the Netherese forces battle with the Bedine 
over control of the Memory S pire, thought to  be a tomb 
of the phaerimm , Netheril's ancient enemies. The battle 
awakens what turns out to  be a hive of the creatures , 
and they use the life and magic-draining power of the 
s pire against the la nds  below. 

By 1489, many of the wars th at began during the Sun-
dering had ground to a close. Other conflicts arose, and 
mighty threats s till imperiled the world, but the deities 
ceased interfering with the world through their Chosen. 
The gods were no longer silent but quiet, and in ma ny 
places new priesthoods arose to interpret the gods' now 
s ubtle signs. 

The world today seems a place filled with new lands 
and opportunities , where those who dare can leave their 
ma rk. S tudents of history and those elves and dwarves 
who recall the past that short-lived humans see as dis-
tant perceive a world much like it was over a century 
ago. For most folk,  wild tales of people empowered by 
the gods, and of far-off lands returned to the world, are 
the subjects of fireside chatter. Daily concerns and the 
da ngers and opportunities just beyond their doors take 
precedence, and plenty of both remain on the Sword 
Coast and in the North. 

CHAPTER  l  I WELCOME TO THE  REALMS 

MAGIC  IN THE  REALMS 
From the simplest cantrip to the mightiest workings of 
High Magic,  from  the blessings of healing mercy to  the 
raising of mighty heroes from  the dead, magic perme-
ates  the Realms. Any understanding of magic begins, 
and ends, with an understanding of the Weave. 

THE WEAVE 

The Weave is an essentia l element of the universe, 
running through everything in unseen threads. Some 
creatures, objects, and locations have deep, intrinsic 
ties to  the Weave and can perform extraordinary feats 
that come naturally to  them (a beholder's flight, a va m-
pire's cha rming gaze, a dragon's breath weapon , and so 
forth) . Creatures with the necessary talent and s kill can 
also manipulate the Weave to perform magic by cast-
ing spells. 

The Weave isn't norma lly visible or detectable, even 
through the use of s pells. Detect magic doesn't let you 
perceive the Weave, for  instance. The Weave isn't magic, 
precisely,  any more than a collection of threads  is a gar-
ment; it's the raw material from which the tapestry of 
magic is woven. 

In two senses , both the  metaphorical and the real, 

the goddess Mystra is the Weave.  She  is its  keeper 
and tender, but a ll  three times the goddess of magic 
has died or been separated from  her divinity (twice as 
Mystra , a nd once as her predecessor, Mystryl), magic 
has  been twis ted or has fail ed entirely.  With Mystra's 
last death and the coming of the Spellplague,  the 
Weave was thought destroyed, and the  term lost its 
significa nce. Since the end of the  most recent Sunder-
ing, both Mystra and the Weave  have  returned to their 
roles  of centuries past, and s pells  and magic items 
a re more  reliable  tha n they had been while the Spell-
plague raged. 

SUPERNATURAL POWERS 

AND  PSIONICS 

The inborn magical abilities of certain creatures, the 
acquired supernatural powers of people such as monks, 
and psionic abilities are similar in that their users don't 
ma nipulate the Weave in the customary way that s pell-
casters do. The mental state of the user is vita lly import-
ant:  monks and some psionics-users  train long and hard 
to attain the right frame of mind , while creatures with 
supernatural powers have that mind-set in their nature. 
How these abilities are related to the Weave remains a 
matter of debate;  many students of the arcane believe 
that the use of the so-called Unseen Art is an aspect of 
magical talent that can't be directly studied or taught. 

MAGIC  ITEMS 

Where a s pell effect is brought to life by manipulating 
the threads of the Weave, the creation of a magic item 
ties some of those threads together in a specific way, to 
produce the desired effect for as long as the item lasts. 
The Weave provides immediately available energy for 
spells and also enables those who know the craft to har-

ness that energy inside an object until it is called forth 
by its user (who, of course, need not be a spellcaster). 
In some cases, the magic of an item must be tied to 
its wielder; representing an entwining of the threads 
of the Weave between wielder and object known as 
attunement. As with all matters related to  magic, the 
number of items to which a s ingle being can be attuned 
is limited , but the benefits of such a  relationship can be 
considerable. 

MYTH A LS 

Mythals are some of the most powerful magic in the 
world of Tori!, constructs that bind and shape the 
Weave in a particular location, sometimes so powerfully 
that the rules of magic or even reality can be bent or 
rewritten. 

A m ythal is a permanent field of overlapping magical 
wards and effects tied to a specific location. In its origi-
nal usage, this term applied to the works of High Magic 
that protected ancient elven cities. It has since been 
expanded to cover all manner of similar protections, 
from the immense floating cities of fallen Netheril to 
the wards of Silverymoon to the smaller- but no less 
effective- workings of magic that keep safe important 
locations like Candlekeep. Even the many-layered wards 
and effects of Undermountain, beneath Waterdeep, are 
considered a mythal by some. 

Most my thals are defensive in  nature,  designed to 
restrict the kinds of magic that can be employed in the 
area they govern, and the most common restrictions are 
concerned with teleportation and conjuration magic. Ev-
ereska's mythal influences the weather of the area and 
wards its inhabitants against disease, while the mythal 
of undersea Myth Nantar makes its waters breathable 
and more comfortable for  creatures not suited to under-
water life. 

In many ways, a mythal is less like a spell or a magic 

item than a living creation of magic, capable of grow-
ing stronger or weaker, absorbing damage, or dying. 
Mythals can also sometimes heai themselves, as did 
the mythal of Silverymoon, blossoming out of the 
Moonbridge following Mystra's  most recent return. 
Each active mythal has one or more beings attuned 
to its  effects, who can ignore any restrictions on spell-
casting, can direct targetable effects of the mythal, and 
can teach others of appropriate s kill  how to access 
its secrets. 

Except in cities such as Silverymoon and Evereska, 
adventurers are most likely to encounter damaged or 
failing mythals in ruined locations where magic once 
had great influence. Although an identify spell might 
reveal some of the simplest effects of a mythal, active 
restrictions on spellcasting can be discovered only by 
trying (and failing) to cast a prohibited spell. A powerful 
spellcaster might learn how to access or repair a mythal 
without assistance, but s uch feats are legendary, and 
rarely attempted by even the most renowned of mages. 
Any elven city with Myth in its title (Myth Drannor, 
Myth Glaurach , Myth Nantar, and others) has, or had, a 
mythal protecting it.  The ruins of such places are cer-
tain to have unpredictable effects related to  their dam-
aged or destroyed my thals. 

WEAVE-AFFECTING  MAGIC 
Certa in spells allow casters to  perceive or manipulate the 
effects of the Weave  in  particular ways. The Weave  itself 
also  has  irregularities that affect spells. 

Detect Magic.  Detect  magic  reveals threads of the Weave 
woven  together through  spellcasting, or the "knots " of the 
Weave  in  a magic  item. A magic item  appears enmeshed 
in  the silvery-blue threads of the Weave,  and the way the 
threads  are arranged  revea ls  what type of magic  is  used 
(necromancy,  abjuration,  and  so on).  Similarly, active 
spells and  areas  imbued with  magic are  limned  in  a silvery 
network of threads, which  might twist and  reknit them-
selves  depending on the magic involved. 

Dispel Magic.  Dispel  magic unwinds  and  prematurely 
ends  magic, unraveling whatever construct of the Weave 
was  put in  place. 

Antimagic. Anti magic effects  can dispel  existing spells 

and  unravel  any  magic woven  from  the Weave.  Perma-
nent effects,  such  as  those from  magic items , are  usually 
suppressed  by  anti magic:  while the effect is  within  an 
area of anti magic, the construct of the Weave  unravels, 
but the threads snap  back  into  place  once the magic  is 
outside the area. 

Dead Magic.  In  rare  areas of dead  magic,  the Weave 
is  absent.  Not only do spells and  magic  items cease to 
function,  but even the supernatural abilities  of creatures 
that are  innately tied to the Weave  might fail  as  the knot of 
the Weave they  carry with  them  unravels. 

Wild  Magic.  In  an  area  of wild  magic, the Weave 
becomes "tangled ,"  spontaneously forming  its  own 
constructs and  resulting  magic.  It  also tends to twist the 
constructs of the Weave  created  by  spellcasting,  causing 
unexpected  results. 

RELIGION  IN THE  REALMS 
Though wizards work wonders with their Art, and 
adventurers take their fates into their own hands, it  is 
on the gods that most folk in  the Forgotten Realms de-
pend when they have need.  The gods play a  role in the 
lives of nearly everyone,  from the mightiest lord to the 
meanest urchin . 

The various races of Tori! worship their pantheons, 
which remain largely the same from region to  region , 
with different cultures and societies emphasizing some 
deities over others. Although exceptions exist- the gods 
of Mulhorand, for example- all the gods are revered 
across all of FaerCm. 

FORMS  OF WORSHIP 

The average person worships different gods in different 
contexts. Most vocations have a patron deity: farmers 
make offerings to  Chauntea for the prosperity of their 
crops, clerks sharpen their quills with a prayer to De-
neir, while pious  merchants remember to set coins aside 
for Waukeen at the end of the day.  Most people worship 
a deity associated with their livelihood, family, or home, 
while others feel  called to a particular god for a variety 
of reasons. Individuals often carry or wear a small token 
of thei r favored deity: a pendant or a pin in the image of 
the god's holy symbol, or some other personal keepsake. 
In addition, people regularly venerate gods based on 
their needs and circumstances: a farmer whose favored 
deity is Chauntea would pray to Amaunator for a few 
clear, sunny days, and a Waterdhavian noble who habit-

ually worships Denier would give thanks to Sune after a 
successful coming-out party for  her son. Even priests of 
particular gods acknowledge the roles that other deities 
play in the world and in their lives. 

In general, worshipers view their relationships with 
the gods as practical and reciprocal: they pray and make 
offerings because that is how one invites the blessings 
of the gods and turns away their wrath. These prayers 
and other acts of devotion are generally performed qui-
etly  at the shrine in one's household or community, or 
occasionally in a temple dedicated to one's deity, when 
a worshiper feels the need to "come knocking upon a 
god's door" to ask for attention. 

Forms of worship are often acts of veneration: giving 

thanks for favor shown, making requests for future 
blessings, and offering praise for the deity's interces-
sions, large and small. Because most folk in FaerO.n 
don't want to attract the ire of the cruel or savage gods, 
beseeching them to keep the peace is also an act of 
worship. A hunter or a farmer might make offerings to 
Malar in hopes of keeping predators at bay, and a sailor 
might pray to Umberlee that she withhold her wrath for 
the duration of a voyage. 

NEW AND  FOREIGN  Goos 
The FaerO.nian pantheon isn't the only one known on 
Tori!. Nonhuman races honor their own gods, for exam-
ple, and people in faraway lands are known to worship 
altogether different gods. Occasionally, foreigners bring 
the worship of these gods to  FaerO.n. In addition, on 
rare occasions a new god comes into being, perhaps a 
mortal elevated to godhood or a deity whose arrival was 
foretold  by prophets and leaders of new religions. In 
cosmopolita n places such as Waterdeep and Calimshan, 
small shrines and temples to strange gods spring up 
from time to time. 

The burgeoning worship of a new deity is rarely a con-

cern to  the other gods of the FaerO.nian pantheon, and 
the people who revere those deities, except when the 
newcomer's a rea of concern directly competes with that 
of an established deity. The methods of resolving such 
conflicts range from friendly dueling festivals  or rites 
meant to emphasize the glory of one god over another, to 
campaigns of outright religious bloodshed. 

Over generations, a new god might become a set-

tled-in member of the pantheon. Indeed, some scholars 
posit that FaerO.n  has many "immigrant" gods, who 
joined the pantheon's ranks so long ago that their for-
eign origins are lost in antiquity. 

DEAD  AND  RESURRECTED  Goos 
Over and over, mourning bells have tolled for some 
of the deities of the Realms. Gods were struck down 
during the Time of Troubles, when the Spellplague 
wrought its destruction, and most recently when Neth-
eril fell.  Some deities have even been slain by mortals 
wielding impossibly powerful magic. 

\  hen a god withdraws from a pantheon , divine magic 
tops flowing to the faithful, and miracles and omens 
a  ociated with that god cease, that deity's priesthood 
lo  es faith,  and holy sites are abandoned or taken over 
by other faiths . To  the deity's worshipers in the world, 

CHAPTER  l  I WELCOME  TO THE  REALMS 

it is immaterial whether the god is truly dead or merely 
dormant- the consequences for them are the same 
either way. Yet,  as recent events have borne out, a god 
who is gone might not remain absent forever.  More than 
a few supposed ly dead gods have returned and amassed 
a new body of worshipers. Indeed, the legends of some 
gods speak of a cycle of death and resurrection. 

As the Sage of Shadowdale once noted, "If the gods 
can grant the power to raise mortals from death, why do 
ye assume they should be laid low by it forever?" 

THE AFTERLIFE 

Most humans believe the souls of the recently deceased 
are spirited away to the Fugue Plane, where they wan-
der the great City of Judgment, often unaware they are 
dead. The servants of the gods come to collect such 
souls and, if they are worthy, they are taken to their 
awaited afterlife in the deity's domain. Occasionally, the 
faithful are sent back to  be reborn into the world to fin-
ish work that was left undone. 

Souls that are unclaimed by the servants of the gods 

are judged by Kelemvor, who decides the fate of each 
one. Some are charged with serving as guides for other 
lost souls, while others are transformed into squirming 
larvae and cast into the dust. The truly false and faith-
less are mortared into the Wall of the Faithless, the 
great barrier that bounds the City of the Dead, where 
their souls slowly dissolve and begin to become part of 
the stuff of the Wall itself. 

RELIGIOUS  INSTITUTIONS 

Those who serve as priests of a god aren't necessarily 
clerics. Indeed, the power invested in clerics and other 
divine spellcasters by the gods is given out only rarely 
(see "Divine Magic" below). The work of a priest is to 
serve one's deity and that deity's faithful, a task that 
doesn't necessarily require the use of magic. 

The kind of person attracted to a deity's priesthood 
depends on the tenets of that god: the cunning rogues 
who venerate Mask have little in common with the up-
right law-keepers of Tyr, and the delightful revelers who 
revere Lliira are different from both. 

TEMPLES  AND  SHRINES 
The core religious institutions of FaerO.n are temples 
and shrines. Whether a small, out-of-the-way building, 
or a complex made up of multiple structures and tracts 
of land, each temple operates according to the traditions 
of its faith, although powerful or charismatic figures 
who rise to  prominence within the temple hierarchy 
might motivate or inspire changes to those traditions. 
Temples in FaerO.n don't have regular services as 
such. Group observances in a temple occur only at spe-
cific festival  times, and priests also go out into the com-
munity to perform rites such as marriages and funerals. 
Temples are places where worshipers go either to spend 
personal or family time in a space consecrated to  a deity 
or to seek the aid of the priests for some reason. 

Small shrines and private chapels , as distinct from 
full-fledged  temples, are common throughout FaerO.n, 
particularly in areas where a temple doesn't exist. 

r -

THE  FAERUNIAN  PANTHEON 

Deity 

Alignment  Domains 

Akadi,  goddess of air 

Amaunator, god of the sun 

Asmodeus,  god of indulgence 

Auri l, goddess of winter 

Azuth , god of wizardry 

Bane , god of tyranny 

Beshaba , goddess of misfortune 

Bhaal , god of murder 

Chauntea , goddess of agriculture 

Cyric , god of lies 

Deneir, god of writing 

Eldath , goddess of peace 

Gond , god of craft 

Grumbar,  god of earth 

Gwaeron Windstrom,  god of tracking 

Helm , god of watchfulness 

Hoar, god  of revenge  and  retribution 

llmater, god of endurance 

lstishia,  god of water 

)ergal , scribe of the dead 

Kelemvor,  god  of the dead 

Kossuth,  god of fire 

Lathander,  god  of dawn  and  renewal 

Leira,  goddess of illusion 

Lliira,  goddess of joy 

Loviatar,  goddess of pain 

Malar, god of the hunt 

Mask, god  of thieves 

Mielikki , goddess of forests 

Milil , god of poetry and  song 

Myrkul,  god of death 

Mystra , goddess of magic 

Oghma , god of knowledge 

The  Red  Knight , goddess of strategy 

Savras , god of di vination  and  fate 

SelOne, goddess of the moon 

Shar, goddess of darkness and  loss 

Silvanus , god of wild  nature 

Sune, goddess of love and  beauty 

Talona,  goddess of poison  and  disease 

Talos,  god of storms 

Tempus , god  of war 

Torm , god of courage  and  se lf-sacrifice 

Tymora , goddess of good fortune 

Tyr, god of justice 

Umberlee, goddess of the  sea 

Valkur,  North lander god of sailors 

Waukeen , goddess  of trade 

N 

LN 

LE 

NE 

LN 

LE 

CE 

NE 

NG 

CE 

NG 

NG 

N 

N 

NG 

LN 

LN 

LG 

N 

LN 

LN 

N 

NG 

CN 

CG 

LE 

CE 

CN 

NG 

NG 

NE 

NG 

N 

LN 

LN 

CG 

NE 

N 

CG 

CE 

CE 

N 

LG 

CG 

LG 

CE 

CG 

N 

Tempest 

Life, Light 

Symbol 

Cloud 

Golden  sun 

Knowledge, Trickery 

Three  inverted triangles arranged  in  a long 

triangle 

Nature, Tempest 

Six-pointed  snowflake 

Arcana , Knowledge 

Left hand  pointing upward , outlined in fire 

War 

Trickery 

Death 

Life 

Trickery 

Upright black hand , thumb and  fingers together 

Black antlers 

Skull  surrounded  by  ring of bloody droplets 

Sheaf of grain or a blooming rose  over grain 

White jawless skull  on  bl ack  or purple sunburst 

Arcana , Knowledge 

Lit candle above an  open  eye 

Life,  Nature 

Knowledge 

Knowledge 

Waterfall  plungin g into a still  pool 

Toothed cog with four spokes 

Mountain 

Knowledge,  Nature 

Paw  print with  a five-pointed  star in  its center 

Life,  Light 

Staring eye  on  upright left gauntlet 

War 

Life 

A coin  with  a two-faced  head 

Hands bound  at the wr ist with  red  cord 

Tempest 

Wave 

Knowledge,  Death 

A skull  biting a scroll 

Death 

Light 

Life,  Light 

Trickery 

Life 

Death 

Nature 

Trickery 

Nature 

Light 

Death 

Upright ske letal arm  holding balanced  scales 

Flame 

Road  traveling into a sunrise 

Point-down triangle co ntaining a swirl of mist 

Triangle of three  six-pointed  stars 

Nine-tailed  barbed  scourge 

Clawed  paw 

Black  mask 

Unicorn 's head 

Five-stringed  harp  made of leaves 

White human  skull 

Arcana,  Knowledge 

Circle of seven  stars,  nine stars  encircling a 

flowing red  mist, or a single sta r 

Know ledge 

Blank scroll 

War 

Red  knight lan ce board  piece  with  stars for eyes 

Arcana , Knowledge 

Crys tal  ball  containing man y kinds of eyes 

Knowledge,  Life 

Pa ir of eyes  surround ed by  seven  stars 

Death, Trickery 

Black dis k encircled with a purple border 

Nature 

Life, Light 

Death 

Tempest 

War 

War 

Tri ckery 

War 

Tempest 

Oak  leaf 

Face of a beautiful  red-haired woman 

Three teardrops  in  a triangle 

Three  lightning bolts radiating from a point 

Upright flaming sword 

White right gauntlet 

Face -up coin 

Balanced  scales  resting on  a warhammer 

Wave curling left and  right 

Tempest, War 

A cloud and  three lightning bolts 

Knowledge, Trickery 

Upright coin  with Waukeen 's profi le facing left 

-"') 

THE  DWARVEN  PANTHEON 

Deity 

Abbathor, gad of greed 

Berronar Truesilver, goddess of hearth 

and  home 

Cl angeddin  Silverbeard , god of war 

Dee p Duerra , duergar goddess of 

conquest and  ps ionics 

Dugmaren  Bright mantle , god  of discovery 

Dumathoin, god of buried  secrets 

Gorm Gulthyn , god of vigilance 

H ael a Brightaxe, goddess of war-luck 

Laduguer, duergar god of magic and 

slavery 

Marthammor Duin , god of wanderers 

Moradin,  god  of creat ion 

Sh arindlar, goddess of healing 

Vergadain, god  of luck and  wealth 

Alignment 

Domain s 

Symbol 

NE 

LG 

LG 

LE 

CG 

N 

LG 

CG 

LE 

NG 

LG 

CG 

N 

Trickery 

Life,  Li ght 

j eweled  dagger,  point-down 

Intertwined silver rings 

War 

Crossed  si lver battleaxes 

Arcana, War 

M ind  fl ayer  sku ll 

Know ledge 

Open  book 

Death,  Knowledge 

Mounta in si lhouette with  a central  gemstone 

Wa r 

War 

Bronze  half-mask 

Upright sword whose blade is  spiraled  in flame 

Arcana,  Death 

Broken  arrow 

Nature, Trickery 

Upright mace in  front of a ta ll boot 

Knowledge 

Hammer and  anvil 

Life 

Trickery 

Burni ng needle 

Gol d coin  with the face  of a dwarf 

Shrines tend to be unstaffed, kept up by the locals and 
visitors who use the place for prayer. A shrine might be 
as modest as a roadside well, where traveling merchants 
can drop a coin to request good fortune from Waukeen, 
or as grand as a statue of Amaunator surrounded by bra-
ziers in a pavilion in the middle of a village. 

Traveling priests often seek out and visit these sites, 

and they act as meeting places for the faithful. When 
word gets around that a traveling priest of Elda th has 
come into town, the fait hful seek her out at the holy 
spring dedicated to the goddess at the edge of town. 
A family or business might maintain a shrine or a 
chapel to its favored deity,  perhaps a set of wind chimes 
consecrated to Akadi hung from the high branches of 
a tree in the garden, or a wooden symbol shaped like 
the hand of Azuth in miniature displayed on a prom-
inent wall with a space nearby to burn a candle or 
some incense. 

COMMUNING WITH THE  GODS 
Though many tales are told of times past when the gods 
appeared in physical form and walked the land, occa-
sions of that sort are few  and far between. For the most 
part, the gods communicate with their faithfu l through 
signs and omens, appreciated by those able to  interpret 
them. Of course, some signs are more subtle- and thus 
more open to interpretation- than others. 

The most common kind of communion that worship-
ers and priests find with their deities is in prayer, song, 
or meditation. S uch experiences are intensely personal, 
and it is common wisdom to keep them that way. After 
all, "advice" from one's god that appears during morning 
prayer and gives one a good turn to the day is worth-
while only for oneself. Let each worshiper commune in 
their own way, as the saying goes. 

Divine magic also provides a means of communing 
with the gods and can be used to call upon their guid-
ance. Divine pronouncements of this sort are often 
personal in scope and brief, and those edicts that con-
cern broader matters tend to be open to interpretation 
or debate. 

PRIESTHOOD 
Priesthood is a vocation like any other, with those who 
undertake it often honing their abilities through a sys-
tem of apprenticeship. At a small temple, a novice or 
an acolyte might study under the only priest available. 
Larger temples can accommodate groups of acolytes, 
each learning under the direction of one or more men-
tors responsible for training them in the duties and 
skills of the priesthood. 

Once acolytes complete their education, they are often 

ordained in a ritual in which a successful candidate is 
invested with the responsibilities of the priesthood. 

CONFLICTS AND  PERSECUTION 
The moral and ethical values of the deities in FaerO.n 
run the gamut, representing all the outlooks that their 
mortal followers demonstrate, from  the principled 
agents of good to the vicious proponents of evil.  Most 
cultures and societies aren't nearly as cosmopolitan as 
the population of FaerO.n taken as a whole; as a result, 
religious persecution (from the viewpoint of those who 
garner the attention) is practiced in places where wor-
ship of certain deities is frowned on. 

Most governments that engage in persecution limit 
such restrictions to the establishment of formal temples, 
priesthoods, and organized festivals. (On a practical 
level, it's impossible to prevent individuals from innoc-
uously or secretly worshiping whichever deities they 
choose.) For instance, although worship of Talona- like 
that of many evil gods- is forbidden in  Waterdeep, this 
prohibition extends only to the creation of a temple and 
the presence of her priesthood within the city. Individual 
citizens or families who revere Talona might be viewed 
as misguided, but they aren't taken into custody or pun-
ished as long as they obey the laws of the city. 

Some places take this form of persecution a step 
further, for a variety of reasons. A tyrant might outlaw 
worship of Torm, lest it inspire rebellion, and an other-
wise fair-minded mayor of a river-mill community might 
demand that worshipers of Silvanus find  elsewhere to 

CHAPTER 1  I WELCOME TO  T H E  REALMS 

22 

THE  ELVEN  PANTHEON 

Deity 

Alignment  Domains 

Symbol 

Aerdrie Faenya , goddess of the sky 

Angharradh , trip le goddess  of wisdom 

and  protection 

Corellon  Larethian , god  of art and  magic 

Deep Sashelas , god of the sea 

Erevan  llesere, god of mischief 

Fenmarel  Mestarine, god  of outcasts 

Hanali Celanil, goddess of love  and  beauty 

Labelas  Enoreth , god  ofome , history, and 

phi losop hy 

Rillifane Rallathil , god of nature 

Sehanine Moonbow, goddess of 

divination, dreams, travel , and  death 

Shevarash , god  of vengeance 

Solonor Thelandira,  god of archery 

CG 

CG 

CG 

CG 

CN 

CN 

CG 

CG 

CG 

CG 

CN 

CG 

THE  DROW  PANTHEON 

Temp est , Tricker y 

Bird  si lhouetted  aga in st a cloud 

Knowled ge,  Life 

Triangle with three  interlocking circl es  with in 

Arca na , Li ght 

Crescent moon 

Nature 

Tricker y 

Tri cker y 

Life 

Dolphin 

As ymmetrical eight-arm ed  star 

Two peering elven  eyes 

Golden  heart 

Arcana,  Knowledge 

Setting sun 

Nature 

Knowledge 

Oak 

Fu ll moon  under a moon bow 

War 

War 

Broken  arrow over a tear 

Si lver arrow with  green fl etching 

Deity 

Alignment  Domains 

Symbol 

Eilistraee, goddess of song and  moonlight 

CG 

Li ght , Nature 

Sword-wielding dancing drow fema le si lh ouetted 

Kiaransalee, god dess  of necromancy 

Lolth , goddess  of spiders 

Selvetarm,  god of warrio rs 

Vhaeraun , god  of thieves 

CE 

CE 

CE 

CE 

Arcana 

Tri ckery 

Wa r 

Trickery 

agai nst the ful l moon 

Female drow hand  wea rin g many sil ver rings 

Spider 

Spider over crossed  swo rd-and -mace 

Black  mask with  blue glass  lenses  in set over eyes 

THE  HALFLI NG  PA NTH EON 

Deity 

Alignment 

Domains 

Symbol 

Arvoreen,  god of vigi lance  and  wa r 

Brandobaris,  god of thievery and 

adventure 

Cyrrollalee,  goddess of hearth and  home 

Sheela  Peryroyl , goddess of agri cu lture 

and  weat her 

Urogalan , god of earth and  death 

Yondalla , goddess offertility and 

protection 

LG 

N 

LG 

N 

LN 

LG 

Wa r 

Trickery 

Crossed  short swo rd s 

Halflin g footprint 

Life 

An  open door 

Nature, Tempest 

Fl owe r 

De ath, Know ledge 

Silhouette of a dog's head 

Life 

Corn ucopia on a shield 

live because of recent problems the timber-cutters have 
had with local druids. 

DIVINE  MAGIC 

The gods show their favor toward mortals in myriad 
ways. A chosen few have their minds and souls opened 
to the power of magic. There is no formula for who does 
and doesn't receive this divine insight, as the gods keep 
their own counsel concerning their selections. Some 
who are favored seek to ignore or deny their gift, while 
others embrace it wholeheartedly. 

Some who display the potential for divine magic de-
velop and practice their abilities in a temple, a sacred 
grove, or some other spirit ual place, perhaps in the 
company of other students. Other practitioners of divine 
magic discover and nurture their gods-given power en-
tirely on their own. 

THE  GODS  OF  FAERUN 
The gods that make up the pantheon of Faerun are 
much like the population of some of the Realms' great-
est cities: an eclectic blend of individuals from a variety 
of sources. The makeup of the pantheon has shifted 
over the ages, as a result of changes in the Realms and 
its people (or vice versa, depending on which scholars 
you believe). The following pages describe the most 
prominent members of the pantheon. 

The deities of the Faerunian pantheon are by no 
means the only powers worshiped in the Realms. The 
nonhuman races have pantheons of their own (de-
scribed in chapter 3), and scattered other cults and local 
divinities can be found across Faerun. 

THE  GNOMISH  PANTHEON 

Deity 
Baervan  Wildwanderer,  god  of woodlands 
Baravar Cloakshadow, god  of il lusion  and 
deception 
Callarduran Smoothhands, god  of mining 
and  carving stone 
Flandal Steelskin , god  of metalwork 
Gaerdal  Iron hand , god  of protection 
Gari Glittergold , god  of trickery and  gems 
Nebelun , god of invention and  luck 
Segojan  Earthcaller,  god  of earth and  the 
dead 
Urd len,  god  of greed and  murder 

THE  O RC  PANTHEON 

Deity 
Bahgtru,  god  of strength 
Gruumsh, god  of storms and  war 
llneval , god  of strategy and  hordes 
Luthic, mother-goddess offertility and 
healing 
Shargaas , god  of stea lth  and  darkness 

Yurtrus , god of death  and  disease 

Alignment 
NG 
NG 

Domains 
Nature 
Arcana , Trickery 

Symbol 
Face of a raccoon 
Dagger against a hooded cloak 

N 

Know led ge,  Nature 

Golden  signet ring with  six-pointed  star 

NG 
LG 
LG 
CG 
NG 

Knowledge 
War 
Trickery 
Knowled ge,  Trickery 
Light 

Flaming hammer 
Iron  band 
Gold  nugget 
Bellows  and  a lizard tail 
Glowing  gemstone 

CE 

Death, War 

White clawed  mole emerging from ground 

Alignment 
LE 
CE 
LE 
LE 

Domai ns 
Wa r 
Tempest, War 
Wa r 
Life,  Nature 

Sym bol 
Broken  thigh  bone 
Unblinking eye 
Upright blood -s pattered sword 
Orcish  rune  meaning "cave entrance" 

NE 

NE 

Trickery 

Death 

Red  crescent moon  with  a skull  between the 
moon's  horns 
White  hand,  palm outward 

AMAUNATOR 

The Keeper of the Eternal Sun,  the Light of Law,  the 
Yellow God 

The rule of law and the glory of the s un are both in Am-
aunator's dominion. His priests help establish bureau-
cracies and lawful order in communities. They often wit-
ness contracts and signed agreements, stamping such 
documents with the sun-symbol of Amaunator to signify 
their validity. 

His priests teach that Amaunator has died and been 
reborn time and again. Like the s un, he might pass into 
the realm of darkness, but inevitably his bright gaze 
will fall on the world once again. Amaunator is seen 
as a stern and unforgiving deity, not unlike Silvanus in 
comportment, but his concern isn't for the balance of 
life- he cares that things proceed according to  the ce-
lestial order, that promises are kept, and that the rule of 
law persists. 

Farmers and travelers beseech him when they pray 
for  rain or sun, as do any others looking for a favorable 
change in the weather. But the most common form of 
propitiation to Amaunator is the practice of swearing 
oaths, signing contracts, and declaring laws under the 
light of the sun. So ingrained in the common perception 
is the connection between a solemn oath and the sun 
that those engaged in closing deals or issuing edicts 
often pause and wait for a passing cloud to clear the sun 
before completing the transaction or pronouncement. 

ASMODEUS 

The Lord of the Ninth,  The Cloven, Old Hoof and Horn 

Open worship of Asmodeus began roughly a century 
ago when small cults with charismatic leaders sprang 
up in the aftermath of the Spell plague. That catastrophe 
left many asking why the gods were angry or had aban-
doned them. To  those questioners, the faithful of Asmo-
deus provided answers and a god who would forgive all 

SYMBOL  OF  AMAUNATOR 

SYMBOL  OF  AsMODEus 

their faults.  Still, for  the next few decades, the cult of 
Asmodeus struggled for  acceptance. 

In the beliefs of the people of the North- which 
coincide with many tales told by dwarves, elves, and 
others- Asmodeus is Lord of the Ninth, the leader of 
all devils of the Nine Hells. People know devils to  be 
iron-minded and silver-tongued purveyors of temptation, 
whose price for  their boons can be as dear as one's 
soul. It's said that when a soul waits on the Fugue Plane 
for a deity to take it to its appropriate afterlife, devils 
approach the soul·and offer it a chance at power and im-
mortal pleasures. All a soul needs to  do is take one step 
out of the dust and the milling crowd and put a foot on 
the first rung of the infernal ladder that represents the 
hierarchy of the Nine Hells. 

The faithful of Asmodeus acknowledge that devils 
offer their worshipers a path that's not for everyone-
just as eternally basking in the light of Lathander or 
endlessly swinging a hammer in the mines of Moradin 
might not be for everyone. Those who serve Asmodeus 
in life hope to be summoned out of the moaning masses 
of the Fugue Plane after death. They yearn for the 
chance to master their own fates, with all of eternity to 
achieve their goals. 

To those not so dedicated, priests of Asmodeus offer 
the prospect of a reprieve in the afterlife. All souls wait 
on the Fugue Plane for a deity's pleasure, which deter-
mines where a soul will spend the rest of eternity. Those 
who lived their lives most in keeping with a deity's out-
look are taken first.  Others, who have transgressed in 
the eyes of their favored god or have not followed any 
particular ethos, might wait centuries before Kelemvor 
judges where they go.  People who fear such a fate can 
pray to Asmodeus, his priests say,  and in return a devil 
will grant a waiting soul some comfort. 

Today, shrines to Asmodeus are still rare and temples 

are almost unheard of,  but many folk have adopted the 
habit of asking Asmodeus for reprieve from their sins. 
After transgressing against a god in some way, a person 
prays to Asmodeus for something to provide respite 
during the long wait. Asmodeus is known to grant peo-
ple what they wish, and thus people pray for all the de-
lights and distractions they desire most from life. Those 
who transgress in great ways often ask Asmodeus to 
hide their sins from the gods, and priests say that he 
will do so, but with a price after death. 

AURIL 

The Frostmaiden, Lady Frostkiss, Icedawn 

Auril, the merciless goddess of cold and winter, is 
worshiped mostly in regions that are affected by deep 
winters. Folk propitiate Auril with offerings and prayers 
for  mercy. Her priests warn others to prepare for winter, 
and to  stock extra provisions in order to have some to 
spare as offerings to the goddess. 

Few favor Auril except for those who make their live-
lihood from winter or those who truly love the season. 
Her rare priests tend to  be folk who would, but for their 
status, likely be outcasts from their communities. They 
practice celibacy and remain aloof from others when not 
serving in their official capacity. 

Luskan has a temple dedicated to Auril, the white-
spired Winter Palace. The structure is a roofless array 
of pillars and arches carved of white stone. The rituals 
of Auril's worship often seem cruel to outsiders. In 
Luskan, visitors gather at the temple to watch the fre-
quent "wet parades," a ritual in which supplicants don 
garments packed with ice. They then journey between 
six white pillars known as the Kisses of Auril, which 
are dispersed throughout the city. The worshipers move 
from pillar to  pillar, chanting prayers to  the goddess. 
Upon reaching a pillar, a supplicant must climb it and 
then "kiss the lady," touching lips to  a rusty iron plate 
at the top. In winter, these events resemble frantic 
footraces , with the added risk of frostbite and injuries 
caused by falling from the slippery pillars. The parade 
runners are cheered on by patrons who come out of 
nearby taverns to place bets on the stamina of the par-
ticipants. Those who finish the race are thought to have 
helped make the winter easier, and they rarely have to 
pay for food or ale all winter long. 

AZUTH 

The High  One,  the Lord of Spellcraft, the First Magister 

Few pay homage to Azuth aside from wizards. For them, 
the High One is the ultimate embodiment of all that they 
hold dear. 

Mystra serves as goddess of magic; Oghma is god of 
knowledge; and Deneir is god of writing and language. 
Azuth takes aspects of these general fields and applies 
them to the specific practices of wizards. For instance, 
while Mystra is the deity who represents the soul, art, 
and wonder of magic, Azuth is god of a wizard's long 
hours of study, exacting standards of movement and 

S Y MBO L  OF  Al:UTH 

S Y MBOL  O F  AURI L 

speech, and cramped, ink-stained fingers. Wizards 
invoke Azuth when they scribe scrolls, inscribe magic 
circles, attempt to memorize spells, and even when they 
cast spells. Often this acknowledgment comes in the 
form of silently forming Azuth's holy symbol, pointing 
the index finger of the left hand to the sky. For many wiz-
ards, the gesture is so commonplace in their lives that it 
becomes an unconscious habit. 

Temples dedicated to Azuth are scarce, and clerics of 

the deity are extremely rare. Even in magic-saturated 
Halruaa, only a handful of holy places are dedicated to 
Azuth. Sometimes a statue or a shrine dedicated to him 
stands in a corner of a temple to Mystra or another deity. 
More often, a wizard has a personal shrine at home. 
Azuth is represented at such sites as a hooded and 
bearded figure with left hand held high, finger pointed 
up. Sometimes he is represented by merely the hand. In 
either case, the finger often serves as a candleholder or 
as the point of origin for a light spell. 

BANE 

The Black Hand,  the Lord of Darkness 

Bane has a simple ethos: the strong have not just the 
right but the duty to rule over the weak. A tyrant who 
is able to seize power must do so, for  not only does the 
tyrant benefit, but so do those under the tyrant's rule. 
When a ruler succumbs to  decadence, corruption, or de-
crepitude, a stronger and more suitable ruler will rise. 
Bane is vilified in many legends. Throughout history, 
those who favor him have committed dark deeds in his 
name, but most people don't worship Bane out of mal-
ice. Bane represents ambition and control, and those 
who have the former but lack the latter pray to him to 
give them strength. It is said that Bane favors those who 
exhibit drive and courage, and that he aids those who 
seek to become conquerors, carving kingdoms from the 
wilderness, and bringing order to the lawless. 

At many times and in many places in Faen1n, the 
faithful of Bane have been seen as saviors for  their ef-
forts in slaughtering raiders, throwing down corrupt rul-
ers, or saving armies on the brink of defeat. But in just 
as many other places, the worship of Bane has created 
or supported cruel dictatorships, aided mercantile mo-
nopolies, or brought about the practice of slavery where 
before it didn't exist. 

S Y MB O L  O F  BAN E 

BESHABA 

The Maid of Misfortune, Lady Doom, Black Bess 

Beshaba is the counterpoint to Tymora and is just as 
frequently acknowledged in daily life as is her more be-
nevolent "sister." She is seen as a cruel and capricious 
goddess who must be propitiated to avoid attracting her 
attention and interest in a negative way. 

Beshaba's name is invoked when someone is beset by 
bad luck-which could be as minor as stubbing a toe or 
breaking a wagon wheel, or as catastrophic as slipping 
and accidentally falling off a cliff. It is also invoked to 
ward off her attentions when someone is doing some-
thing in which good luck wouldn't play a part but bad 
luck might. For example, someone rolling dice would 
invoke Tymora because they want random chance to 
fall in their favor,  but someone about to  cross a rickety 
bridge would ask Beshaba to keep the bridge intact. 

Folk make the symbol of Beshaba by folding in their 

thumbs and extending their fingers on one or both 
hands (mimicking the horns of her holy symbol) to ward 
off misfortune. The same gesture raised to  the head 
signifies a salute; when pointed at someone, the "horns" 
indicate ill favor directed toward that individual. 

Many druids worship Beshaba as one of the First 
Circle. They propitiate her with dances while wearing 
fire-blackened antlers dipped in blood. According to 
these druids, her holy symbol is the horns of a stag be-
cause when Beshaba was first worshiped, humans were 
simple hunter-gatherers and she was believed to bring 
misfortune to  hunters, such as being gored by a stag. 

Although most people tremble in fear at the prospect 

of Beshaba's attendance at any event (even in spirit), 
Beshaba is almost always invoked and welcomed 
formally in the opening speeches or ceremonies of 
formal functions such as marriages and coronations, 
contests of sport or martial prowess, and at the naming 
ceremonies of children. If she isn't invited to such an 
event, she might take offense and wreak misfortune on 
those involved. 

Temples to Beshaba are virtually unknown. It's com-
mon, however, for  rural folk to erect a post and mount 
antlers on it at the site of some roadside accident or 
murder. In cities, where antlers are hard to come by and 
murders and accidents more prevalent, the fashion is to 
draw the black antlers of Beshaba with charcoal on a 
nearby wall, leaving the symbol on display until weather 
scours it away. These "shrines," in either form, serve as 
warnings to others about places of ill fortune. 

CHAPTER  1  I WELCOME TO THE  REALMS 

More formal shrines to Beshaba exist in places where 
folk frequently hope to ward off misfortune. These sites 
tend to be posts or stones painted red with blackened 
antlers attached to them, or a red, triangular wall-
mounted plaque with attached antlers. Both types have 
a stone or bronze bowl where coins can be tossed or 
burnt offerings made. The Red Wizards of Thay com-
monly erect such shrines outside their ritual chambers 
to guard against unfortunate mistakes. 

Few dare to take Beshaba as a patron. The rare cler-
ics of the Maid of Misfortune are those who have been 
deeply affected by great misfortunes and who seek to 
warn others of the essential unfairness of life- or to in-
flict  that unfairness upon them. 

BHAAL 

The Lord of Murder 

The folk of Faerfm don't normally pray to or acknowl-
edge Bhaal. He is seen as a deeply evil and destructive 
deity who hungers for death- meaning the death of any 
sentient beings through unlawful means. 

Some people pray to Bhaal when they want to commit 

murder. A person might have good reason to resort to 
murder, such as when one is unable to redress some in-
justice through lawful means. But it's far more common 
for prayers to Bhaal to be uttered by those who seek to 
kill someone out of jealousy, greed, or wrath. It's rare for 
anyone but assassins or compulsive killers to take Bhaal 
as a patron , and clerics who revere Bhaal often qualify 
on both counts. 

Murder cults of Bhaal have arisen in the past, each 
led by a charismatic, self-styled priest of Bhaal, but or-
ganized worship of the Lord of Murder is extremely un-
common. Temples and shrines are similarly rare. Those 
who erect a shrine to Bhaal usually do so to thank him 
for a successful murder. Such shrines typically feature 
a skull or a severed head surrounded by drops of blood 
(often both from  the murdered victim). 

CHAUNTEA 

The Great Mother,  the Grain Goddess 

Chauntea is goddess of agriculture: sowing and reaping, 
seeding and harvest, breeding and butchery, shearing 
and weaving. In this aspect she is a rural deity rarely 
prayed to behind the walls of a city except by kitchen 
gardeners. But Chauntea is also the Great Mother, a 
goddess of crib, hearth, and home. And as such she is 

THE  EARTHMOTHER 
The druids of the  Moonshae  Isles  worship the  Earth-
mother,  she who  is  the generative  power of the land  itself. 
To  some mainlanders, the  Earthmother is  an  aspect or 
manifestation of Chauntea,  but to the  Ffolk,  she is  simply 
the  Earth mother,  and  always  will  be. The  moonwells  of the 
isles  are  her sacred sites and  her windows  onto the world. 
See "Druids"  in  chapter 4 for  more  information. 

welcomed into all homes at mealtimes and at the birth 
of children, and folk give her thanks whenever they 
experience the pleasure of settling by a fire and feeling 
safe and loved. 

Chauntea's faith is one of nurturing and growth. Agri-
cultural aphorisms and farming parables dot her teach-
ings. Growing and reaping, the eternal cycle, is a com-
mon theme in the faith.  Destruction for  its own sake, or 
leveling without rebuilding, is anathema to her. 

Temples of Chauntea maintain a great body of lore 
about farming and cultivation. Her priests work closely 
with communities in rural areas, and they are willing to 
roll up their sleeves and dig their hands into the dirt. 

CYR IC 

The Prince of Lies,  the Dark Sun 

The worship of Cyric derives directly from the story of 
his ascension to godhood. Cyric was a mortal during the 
Time of Troubles and the key to how that chaotic period 
resolved, but he was also a selfish traitor and a mur-
derer. When he became a god, Cyric continued to work 
various plots of deceit and murder- the most famous of 
which is that, according to  legend, Cyric murdered Mys-
tra and thus caused the Spellplague over a century ago. 
Those who don't worship Cyric see him as a god of 
madness, strife, and deceit, although his priests con-
sider such claims to be heresy. Their Prince of Lies 
isn't a twisted madman, but a god of dark majesty who 
proves that, ultimately, all bonds between folk corrupt 
and wither away. 

Cyric's church works openly in Arnn, where the citi-
zens espouse the principles of ambition, self-reliance, 
and "buyer beware." Those who take Cyric as their 
patron tend to be sadists, con artists, power-mad conniv-
ers, and worse. Other folk pray to Cyric when they want 
to do wrong but don't want others to find  out about it. 

"The Dark Sun," originally one of Cyric's epithets, has 

become a metaphor for strife in the Realms. "A Dark 
Sun has risen o'er this court" might be spoken as a 

SYM B O L 

OF  (H AU N TEA 

SYM BOL  OF  CYRIC 

SYMBOL  O F  B HAAL 

warning that intrigues and infighting have gotten out of 
hand in a noble household; and married couples know to 
seek advice .from others if "a Dark Sun shines through 
the window" in their relationship. 

DENE IR 

The Lord of All Glyphs and Images,  the First Scribe, the 
Scribe of Oghma 

Deneir is the god of literature and literacy, the patron of 
the artist and the scribe. His is the power to accurately 
render and describe, to write and to read, and to pass 
on information. In legend, Deneir is often portrayed as 
being a scribe in service to Oghma, and he is sometimes 
thought of as Oghma's right hand. 

It's common practice for someone who writes a let-
ter or records information to say a prayer to  Deneir to 
avoid mistakes. Similarly, artists acknowledge Deneir 
before beginning and upon completing paintings, par-
ticularly illuminations on manuscripts, tapestries that 
relate stories, and any such attempt to use art to capture 
the truth. 

Followers of Deneir believe that information not re-
corded and saved for later use is information lost. They 
consider literacy an important gift of the gods, one that 
should be spread and taught. His followers are scribes 
and scholars devoted, like their patron, to preserving 
written works, and also to  experiencing them, for they 
say that Deneir himself is hidden within the lines, 
shapes, and passages of all written works. Priests of 
Deneir take an oath of charity as well, compelling them 
to  accept the requests of others to write letters and tran-
scribe information. 

The god's followers tend to  be individualists, united 
by their shared faith but not overly concerned with reli-
gious hierarchy and protocol. This behavior is supported 
by the fact that Deneir's blessings of divine magic are 
more often bestowed on those who lose themselves in 
written works than on those who fancy themselves part 
of any temple or religious order. Contemplation of the 
faith's most holy book, the Tome of Universal Harmony, 
is the most effective way to  become deserving of Dene-
ir's blessings. 

ELDA TH 

The Quiet One, the Guardian of Groves, the Mother of 
the  Waters 

Eldath is the goddess of waterfalls, springs, pools, still-
ness, peace, and quiet glades. She is thought to be pres-
ent at many such places, particularly those that serve as 
druid groves. Eldath is a goddess of comfort, healing, 
and calm. Her blessed waters heal the sick, cure mad-
ness, and comfort the dying. 

Most rural places have a pond or a glade that locals 
ascribe to Eldath. Tradition dictates that it be a place of 
quiet reflection where others are left to their thoughts. A 
body of water such as a pond or a spring typically serves 
as a repository of offerings. If the holy site is a glade, a 
stream one crosses along the way might serve as the re-
pository, or a prominent bush or tree in the glade might 
be the place where people tie offerings. Typical offerings 
are broken weapons or items that are remembrances of 
arguments, which the faithful discard while making a 
wish for peace in the future. Many of those who favor El-
dath are pacifists or people who are troubled by violence 
they have witnessed or experienced. 

Eldath's priests don't organize into large sects. Indeed, 

many are itinerant, wandering between various holy 
sites and shrines, seeing that the locations are cared 
for  and that they remain places of sweet serenity. The 
faithful of Eldath are usually close to nature, and allied 
to druids, who count Eldath among the First Circle. It 
is taboo to strike a priest of Eldath, and killing one is 
said to bring great misfortune. Despite the measure of 
protection that this belief affords them, most priests of 
Eldath avoid conflicts rather than attempting to quell 
them . Those who serve Eldath are happy to preside over 
peaceful negotiations and to certify treaties, but they 
can't force others to engage in harmony. 

GOND 
The  Wonderbringer,  the Inspiration Divine,  the Holy 
Maker of All Things 

Gond is the god of artifice, craft, and construction. He is 
revered by blacksmiths, woodworkers, engineers, and 
inventors. Anyone who is crafting something might say 
a prayer to Gond to guide the work, but folk know that 
Gond smiles most brightly upon new inventions that 
others find  useful. 

Priests of Gond wander the North dressed in saffron 

vestments, adorned with sashes that contain within 

SYMBOL  OF  ELDATH 

SYMBOL  OF  D ENEIR 

CHAPTER  1  I WELCOME  TO THE  REALMS 

• 

their folds gears, locks, hooks, and bits of steel, tin , and 
wood that might prove useful in a pinch. They also wear 
belts of large, linked metal medallions and enormous 
s un hats . A traveling priest of Gond offers services to 
distant villages as a tinker, a carpenter, and a civil engi-
neer rolled into one, ready to help build a better paddock 
gate, dig a new well, or mend pots or furniture that 
might otherwise go  to waste. All priests of Gond keep 
journals in which they record ideas, inventions, and in-
novations discovered in their travels, and take great de-
light in meeting fellow priests and sharing their finds.  In 
large cities, the Gondar construct temples that serve as 
great workshops and inventors' labs. Wandering priests 
turn their journals over to the resident scribes at such 
temples, who then record the priests' observations for 
posterity and the benefit of all. 

Most who favor G9nd practice time-honored crafting 
professions: they are smiths and engineers, architects 
and weavers, leatherworkers and jewelers. Even so, this 
fa ith has a well-earned reputation as a haven for crack-
pot inventors and visionaries. 

The center of Gond's worship on the Sword Coast lies 

in  Baldur's Gate, where the faithful have erected two 
huge structures in honor of the Wonderbringer: a tem-
ple called the High House of Wonders and a museum 
of craft and design called the Hall of Wonders. Lantan 
had been the preeminent place of Gond's worship in the 
world until a century ago, when the island nation dis-
appeared, and since its return the few Lantanese mer-
chants seen in Sword Coast ports have said little about 
the present state of their homeland. 

GWAERON WINDSTROM 

The Mouth of Mielikki,  the Master Tracker,  the Tracker 

ever Led Astray 

Few aside from rangers of the North pray to Gwaeron 
Windstrom. Said to have been a mortal man elevated to 
godhood by Mielikki, Gwaeron serves rangers as their 
intercessor with Mielikki. He is seen as a master ranger, 
the perfect tracker, a peerless animal handler, and a 
dedicated foe  of rapacious creatures such as trolls and 
ores. He is said to look like an old man with a long white 
beard who is still hale and mighty, and he is believed to 
ta ke rest and sleep in a stand of trees near Triboar. 
Rangers pray to Gwaeron because he represents 
much of the work they do, and because he can speak 
to Mielikki on their behalf. In the North, most rangers 
view Mielikki as too mysterious,  holy,  and wild to  be 

addressed directly with their requests, but they consider 
Gwaeron Windstrom to be one of them and thus under-
standing of their needs. 

Gwaeron has no temples, but shrines dedicated to 
him can be found  in many places that serve wilderness 
wanderers as trail markers. Each one is denoted by a 
carving of Gwaeron's symbol , a paw print with a star on 
the palm, on a prominent tree or stone. 

HELM 

The Watcher,  He of the  Unsleeping Eyes, the Vigilant 
One 

The god of vigilance and protection, Helm is seen as the 
epitome of the guardian, the watcher, and the guard. He 
is venerated by those who need to remain watchful for 
enemies or danger. Helm is a favorite deity of people 
who make a living by protecting someone or something, 
such as bodyguards, members of the city watch, and the 
guards of a treasury vault. 

Helm embodies the spirit of watchfulness without 
regard to good or evil.  In legends , he is honorable and 
keeps his word to a fault , such as when he guarded 
the celestial stairways during the Time of Troubles, 
preventing the gods from ascending them and continu-
ing the chaos of that period, until the Tablets of Fate 
were found . 

Although his faith  has known dark days, worship of 
Helm never truly faded away. Most of his followers be-
lieve that the Watcher can never be vanquished utterly, 
and recent events have borne out that assertion. 

Helm's priests teach that one must be ever vigilant, 
ever aware,  ever prepared for one's enemies. Patience, 
clear thought, and careful planning will always defeat 
rushed actions in  the end. Those who favor Helm strive 
to be alert, clear-headed, and true to their word. These 
traits don't necessarily make them nice people, however, 
and as such many consider the faithful of Helm to be 
inflexible and merciless. 

HOAR 

The Doombringer, Poet of justice 

Hoar, known in the lands along the Inner Sea as Assu-
ran, is a god of revenge and retribution. He isn't typically 
worshiped habitually, but his name is invoked by those 
who seek vengeance. When a guilty party falls prey to 
fate- such as when a murderer escapes prosecution , 
but is then accidentally slain himself- the hand of Hoar 

SYMBOL  OF"  11oAR 

SYMBOL  OF"  11ELM 

SYMBOL  OF  GoND 

CHAPTER  I  I WELCOME TO THE  REALMS 

is given credit. When one hears three rolls of thunder 
in succession, it is thought to be a sign from Hoar that 
some act of.vengeance has been performed. Many 
human societies have the custom of ringing a bell or a 
gong three times when judgment of a crime is rendered 
or an execution takes place. 

Folk speak Hoar's name when they want revenge, 
particularly when they are incapable of avenging them-
selves. This invocation might be in response to a petty 
slight or a true injustice, and the acknowledgment of 
Hoar might be a short prayer said aloud or might be 
written down somewhere. It's generally believed that 
the more permanent the form of the prayer, the more 
likely it is to  be fulfilled.  For this reason, some etch 
their prayers in lead and bury it or hide their prayers 
inside diaries. Aside from bounty hunters and those on 
crusades of vengeance, few truly revere Hoar, and he is 
served by fewer still who would call  themselves priests. 
Temples or shrines of Hoar are almost nonexistent ex-
cept for ancient sites in Chessenta and Unther. 

Hoar became a member of the Faerfinian pantheon 
when his worship extended beyond the lands that origi-
nally revered him. Most consider Tyr to be the arbiter of 
laws, and Hoar to be the god who metes out punishment 
that comes as a result of breaking those codes. A judge 
might favor the worship of Tyr, while a jail or or a heads-
man is more likely to  pray to Hoar. 

lLMATER 

The  Crying God,  the Rack-Broken Lord, He  Who 
Endures 

Ilmater is the god of suffering, martyrdom, and perse-
verance, renowned for his compassion and endurance. 
It is he who offers succor and calming words to those 
who are in pain, victimized, or in great need. He is the 
willing sufferer, the one who takes the place of another 
to heft the other's burden, to take the other's pain. He is 
the god of the oppressed and the unjustly treated. 

It is said that if he had his way, the Crying God would 
take all the suffering in the world onto himself, so as to 
spare others. Since he can't, he blesses those who endure 
on others' behalf, and he alleviates suffering when he can. 
Martyrs who die that others may live are always blessed 
by II mater with a final rest and reward in the god's after-
life, should they so choose. 

Ilmater's priests take in the ill, the starving, and the 
injured, and his temples give most of what they receive 
to help offset the suffering of the world. His followers 

SYMBOL  OF  lLMATER 

provide succor when they can, but also use force to 
put an end to torture and suffering inflicted on others. 
Ilmater's priests travel to  places where the worst pos-
sible conditions exist, ministering to  the needs of the 
oppressed, the deceased, and the poor. They put others 
ahead of themselves, are sharing of all they have, and 
emphasize the spiritual nature of life over the welfare of 
the material body. 

Priests of Ilmater who are on a quest to  aid others 
can be recognized by their hair shirts, vests of coarse 
fur worn against the bare skin. It is taboo to harm such 
priests as they go  about their duties, such as when they 
administer to the wounded on a battlefield. The taboo is 
so strongly felt  among humans that other races respect 
the custom. Even ores and goblinoids will avoid directly 
attacking a peaceful priest of Ilmater, as long as the 
priest administers to their fallen warriors as well. 

Most folk deeply respect the work and the sacrifice 
of Ilmater's faith , and lend aid to such endeavors where 
they can. When a temple of Ilmater sends its faithful to 
help refugees of war or victims of plague, their willing-
ness to sacrifice their own well-being always prompts 
ordinary people to support them, whether they are in-
spired or shamed into action. 

ERG AL 

The Final Scribe,  the Pitiless One, the Bleak Seneschal 

Legend has it thatJergal is an ancient deity. The story 
goes that in the time of Netheril he was worshiped as 
the god of death, murder, and strife. Yet with the passing 
of time, he became bored with his position. Then one 
day three mortals, each a powerful adventurer, metJer-
gal in the lands  of the dead, determined to destroy him 
and take his power. Instead,Jergal calmly abdicated his 
throne of bones and allowed each of the three mortals to 
take part of his divinity. Thus it was that Bane assumed 
the portfolio of strife, Myrkul the rulership of the dead, 
and Bhaal the portfolio of murder.] ergal lost his former 
stature and became a scribe of the dead. 

Jergal is now seen as an uncaring custodian of the 
dead. He is thought to record the passing of the living 
and to aid Kelemvor in seeing that souls are properly 
bound to their appropriate afterlife. He is rarely ac-
knowledged directly, except for being mentioned at 
funerals and among those who practice the custom of 
writing the name of the deceased on a sheet of parch-
ment and placing it in the corpse's mouth. This rite is 

CHAPTER 1  I WELCOME TO THE  REALMS 

SYMBOL  OF  JERGAL 

battle on  for  an  eternity,  the  Lord  of the  End  of Everything 
interve ned. 

THE  LEGEND  OF  KNUCKLEBONES,  SKULL  BOWLING,  AND  THE  EMPTY  THRONE 
Long  ago there was  but one god  of strife,  death , and the 
dead , an.d  he was  known  as  jergal,  Lord  of the  End  of Every-
thing.  jergal fomented  and  fed  on  the discord  among mortals 
and  deific entities alike. When  beings slew each other in  their 
quest for  power or in  their hatred,  he welcomed them  into 
his  shadowy  kingdom  of eternal gloom. As  all  things died , 
everything came to  him  eventually,  and  over time he  built a 
kingdom  unchallenged  by any other god.  But  he  grew tired  of 
his  duties, for  he  knew them too well,  and  without challenge 
there is  nothing-a nd  in  nothingness there is  only  gloom. 
In  such  a state, the difference  between  absolute  power and 
absolute powerlessness  is -undetectable. 

"After all  you  have  sacrificed, would  you  come away with 
nothing? Why don't yo u di vide the  portfolios of the office  by 
engaging in  a game of skill  for  them?"  asked  jergal. 

Bane,  Bhaal , and  Myrkul  considered the god's offer and 
agreed  to  it.  So  jergal took the skulls of his  three  most pow-
erful  liches  and  gave them to the trio  so they could  compete 
in  skull  bowling.  Each  mortal  rolled  a skull  across the Gray 
Waste,  having agreed  that the winner would  be  he who 
bowled the farthest. 

During this  dark era  arose three  powerful  mortals-Bane, 

Bhaal,  and  Myrkul-who lusted  after the  power jergal  pos-
sessed. The trio forged  an  unholy  pact that they would  gain 
such  ultimate  power or die  in  the attempt. Over the  length 
and  breadth  of the world  they strode,  seeking  powerful  magic 
and  spells and  defying death at every turn . No  matter what 
monster they confronted or what spells they braved , the three 
mortals emerged  unscathed  at every turn.  Eventually, the 
trio journeyed  into the Gray Waste and  sought out the Castle 
of Bone. Through armies of skeletons,  legions of zombies, 
hordes of wraiths,  and  a gauntlet of liches they  battled. 
Eventually they reached the object of their lifelong quest-
Bone Throne. 

the 

"I  claim  this throne of evil,"  Bane the tyrant shouted 

to jergal. 

"I'll  destroy you  before you  can  raise  a finger,"  threatened 

Bhaal  the assassin. 

"And  I shall  imprison yo ur essence for  eternity,"  promised 

Myrkul  the  necromancer. 

jergal  arose from  his throne with  a weary expression  and 
said,  "The throne is  yours.  I have  grown  weary of this  empty 
power. Take  it  if you  wish-I promise to  serve and  guide 
you  as  your seneschal  until  you  grow comfortable with  the 
position." Then , before the stunned trio could  react, the  Lord 
of the  Dead  asked,  "Who among you  shall  rule?" 

The trio  immediately fell  to fighting among themselves 
while  jergal  looked  on with  indifference. When  eventually 
it  appeared that either they would  all  die  of exhaustion or 

Malar the  Beastlord arrived  to visit  jergal  at this  moment. 
After quickly  ascertaining that the winner of the contest would 
receive all  of jergal's  power, he  chased off after the three 
skulls  to  make sure that the contest would  be  halted  until  he 
had  a chance to  participate for  part of the  prize.  Bane, Bhaal, 
and  Myrkul  again  fell  to fighting, as  it was obvious their sport 
had  been  ruined,  but again  jergal  intervened.  "Why don't you 
allow  Lady  Luck  to decide,  so you  don't have to share with 
the  Beast?" 

The trio agreed to this  alternative, and  jergal  broke off his 
skeletal  finger  bones and  gave them to the contestants. When 
Malar  returned from  chasing the skulls,  he  found  that the trio 
had  just finished  a game of knucklebones. 

Bane cried  out triumphantly, "As  winner,  I choose to  rule 
for  all  eternity as  the  ultimate tyrant.  I can  induce  hatred  and 
strife at my whim,  and  all  will  bow  down  before  me while  in 
my  kingdom." 

Myrkul,  who  had won  second  place, declared , "But  I choose 
the dead , and  by  doing so  I truly win,  because all  that you  are 
lord  over,  Bane, will  eventually  be  mine. All  things  must die-
even  gods." 

Bhaal,  who finished  third,  proclaimed , "I choose death , and 

it  is  by  my  hand  that all  that you  rule, Lord  Bane, will  eventu-
ally  pass to  Lord  Myrkul.  Both  of you  must pay  honor to me 
and  obey  my  wishes,  since  I can  destroy your  kingdom,  Bane, 
by  murdering your subjects,  and  I can  starve your  kingdom, 
Myrkul , by  staying my  hand ." 

Malar growled  in  frustration,  but could  do  nothing,  and  so 

yet again  only the  beasts were  left for  him . 

And  jergal  merely smiled, for  he  had  been delivered. 

common in places where an individual's grave or tomb 
isn't marked with the person's name. 

Few people favor Jergal as a deity, and most who do 
are concerned with the dispensation of the dead in some 
way.  Priests ofJergal serve communities as undertakers 
and caretakers of gravesites. Jergal has no temples ded-
icated to him aside from abandoned places devoted to 
his old,  darker incarnation, but his priests are welcome 
in the temples of Kelemvor, Deneir, and Myrkul. His 

faithful send their annual recordings of mortality to holy 
sites where records of that sort are kept. 

KELEMVOR 

The Lord of the Dead, the judge of the Damned 

Kelemvor is seen as a just, fair,  and comforting god of 
death. Death comes to all, and when it occurs Kelemvor 
is there to take each soul by the hand and lead it to the 

SYMBOL  OF  KELEMVOR 

and even give birth when possible, to  provide the baby 
good fortune. 

The faithful of Lathander embrace the founding of 
new communities and the growth of civilization, as long 
as that civilization gives everyone the potential to suc-
ceed. They despise the undead, seeing them as both a 
corruption of the natural order and a disavowal of new 
beginnings, because undead cling to their old existence 
rather than moving on. 

LEI RA 
The Lady of the Mists, Mistshadow,  the Lady of 
Deception 

Leira has worn many masks, and more than once has 
been thought to be dead or to be another deity alto-
gether. Perhaps such a reputation is only natural for the 
goddess of illusion and deception . Her faithful agree 
that whatever the "truth" might be, their Lady takes 
great delight in the confusion sown by her various incar-
nations. Even the faithful of Cyric once taught that their 
god killed Leira, but now they espouse the strange idea 
that somehow she is his daughter. 

Leira isn't viewed as malicious or as a trickster but is 

seen as enigmatic, quiet, and retiring. She is credited 
with inventing Ruathlek, the language of illusionists and 
the spoken tongue of Nimbral. 

The faithful of Leira seem to  be scarce, although it 
is difficult to know this for certain, because those who 
favor her rarely make their inclinations known. Leira 
is the patron of illusionists and liars. She receives little 
regular worship except from illusionists, who pray to the 
Mistshadow for potency in their magic, and con artists, 
for whom she is a kind of champion. Most people pray to 
her when they hope to keep something secret, or placate 
her with a prayer before making an important decision 
when they fear being deceived. Some folk perform a 
swirling motion with a finger behind their backs when 
telling a lie as a way of beseeching her for aid. 

Her priests wear vestments of white and mist-gray, 

and their faces are covered by smooth, featureless 
masks. Only in Nimbral do temples to Leira exist, and 
shrines dedicated to her found across the continent are 
usually disguised as-other kinds of sites, marked with 
signs that only the faithful would recognize. 

proper afterlife. Kelemvor's priests teach that those who 
revere the gods according to  the rites of their religion 
have done t,heir proper service and will be offered the 
afterlife they seek. 

The faithful of Kelemvor provide people with peaceful 

transitions into the care of the Lord of the Dead. They 
help the dying put their affairs in order, and they offici-
ate at funeral rites for those who can't afford the lavish 
ceremonies of their faith.  The tenets of Kelemvor's 
faithful compel them to forestall or prevent untimely 
deaths whenever possible. Different sects and worship-
ers define "untimely" in different ways. One group might 
concentrate on stopping the spread of disease, another 
on the prevention of murder, and yet another on elimi-
nating the scourge of the undead. In fact, all the faithful 
of Kelemvor despise the undead and work to some 
degree to  eliminate them, for undead of any sort are 
seen as an abomination of the natural order. This belief 
obviously puts Kelemvor's faithful at odds with necro-
mancers, priests of Myrkul , and others who promote the 
creation of the undead, and it also causes conflict from 
unexpected sources. For instance, priests of Kelemvor 
routinely destroy any writings about the creation of the 
undead that they find-an act that offends those who 
value knowledge for its own sake, such as the faithful of 
Oghma and Deneir. And there also exist undead that ar-
en't evil, such as the baelnorn, which the elves consider 
holy.  Kelemvor's devotees seek the end of such beings 
regardless of that fact. 

LATHAN DER 
The Morninglord,  Inspiration 's Dawn,  the Rose-and-
Gold God 

Lathander is the god of the spring, birth, and renewal, a 
deity of conception, vitality, youth, renewal, and self-per-
fection.  He is god not of the sun but of the dawn , which 
represents the start of a new day filled with potential. 
Lathander is a god of beginnings. People commonly 
offer a prayer to him before undertaking any journey or 
endeavor. Lathander's name is invoked to seal alliances 
and christen new ventures or companies. As a result, 
the god is very popular among the merchant classes, 
and the church has benefited accordingly. 

The rising sun is his symbol, and his colors are the 
rose, gold, and violet of the dawn. Lathander's temples 
and shrines host a wide range of functions both munic-
ipal and personal. At such places folk get married in 
dawn ceremonies, announce the start of civic projects, 

SYMBOL  OF  LATHAN D ER 

CHAPTER 1  I WELCOME TO  THE  REALM S 

SYMBOL  OF  LEIRA 

LLIIRA 

Our Lady of joy, joybringer,  the Mistress of R evels 

Lliira is a beloved goddess, a deity of contentment, re-
lease, joy,  happiness, dance, and freedom. As the patron 
of festivals, she is honored at any celebration, a nd dance 
is the primary way to worship her. The Mistress of Rev-
els is said to  abhor violence, and any fighting or drawing 
of weapons (except in ceremony) at a celebration will 
cause her to withhold her favor.  Her priests and priest-
esses, known as joybringers, take it as their mission to 
make other people happy, even if just for a moment. 

Her faithful a lways wear at least one clothing item of 
a bright, cheerful color, and her priests' vestments have 
more in  common with festival attire than with somber 
ecclesial garments. Rubies and sapphires are sacred to 
Our Lady of Joy, and her priests bless anyone they see 
wearing s uch adornments. 

Lliira's followers aren't frivolous , however. To them, 
divine joy is a very real gift to the world of mortals, and 
one much needed . To that end, they fight  those who 
would bring misery to others. They are fierce against 
their foes, a nd joyous revelers when their work is done. 

LOVIATAR 

The Maiden of Pain, the Scourge Mistress, the Willing Whip 

Pain isn't a means to an end for Loviatar's faithful,  but 
a n end unto itself.  To them, nothing is as transcendent 
as suffering, and all pain is holy, from  the crudest bar-
barism, to the most sublime torture, to the emotional 
suffering of the heartbroken or the betrayed. 

The pain that one feels is proof of the Lady's attention, 

and so her faithful are notorious self-flagellants. Pain 
is also a path to power, in  terms of both one's ability to 
inflict it and one's ability to endure it. A cold, cruel de-
meanor is considered ideal because it best emulates the 
Scourge Mistress, and for  the same reason her faithful 
appreciate beauty, cultural refinement, and a certain 
adeptness at manipulation . 

Though temples to Loviatar are rare, her faithful are 

more numerous than might be expected. Loviatar is 
the chosen deity of those who inflict pain as a matter 
of course, including torturers and others who need to 
break the will of their victims . She is favored by sadists 
and masochists , and some of her followers form cultish 
cells of secret adherents. Each of these groups is led by 
someone who takes pleasure in administering pain and 

dominating others, supported and backed up by a num-
ber of submissive sycophants. 

Worshipers of Loviatar rarely gather in  numbers ex-
cept in the more populous cities. When small cadres of 
faithful operate quietly in such places, few citizens take 
notice or raise a fuss if they do witness cult activity. The 
s ufferers who endure the lash, however, aren't always 
willing participants, and Lovatar's cults sometimes op-
erate secret slavery rings, which can draw the attention 
of the authorities. The open worship of Loviatar and 
temples clearly dedicated to her are rarely seen except 
in lands where slavery is  an accepted practice. 

MALAR 

The B eastlord, the Black-Blooded One 

Malar epitomizes the dark side of nature,  the world that 
is red in tooth and claw.  His faithful  believe the hunt is 
the center point between life and death- the facing off 
of hunter and prey, forcing the issue of who lives and 
who dies. People believe that Malar ca n't be propitiated 
and knows no mercy, so he receives prayers only from 
those engaging in a hunt. Such supplicants pray to  Ma-
lar for two reasons:  to beg the aid of his peerless skill 
as a hunter, or to adopt his fearsome mantle and thus 
ward off other predators. Malar is the god of those who 
delight in  the hunt, don't shy from  bloodshed, and savor 
the fear of their prey. 

Many lyca nthropes consider Malar to be their divine 

father, as do some other intelligent predators. He has 
many devotees who are druids and rangers of partic-
ularly savage inclination , and many barbarians take 
Malar as a patron for his ferocity and cruelty.  His priests 
use claw bracers, impressive gauntlets bedecked with 
stylized claws that jut out from the ends of the fists,  as 
ceremonial weapons. 

MASK 

The Lord of Shadows, the Master of All Thieves 

Mask is a trickster god, the patron of ne'er-do-wells, 
spies, and thieves. All that occurs within shadow is in 
the purview of Mask. People whisper a prayer to Mask 
whenever stealth is required or intrigue is afoot. Court-
iers and diplomats invoke the god's name in  hopes of a 
smooth negotiation. 

Those who favor Mask usually pursue thievery and 
other forms of acquisition of what belongs to others, 
such as pickpocketing, burglary, mugging, and con 

SYMBOL  OF  LLllRh 

SYMBOL  OF  Mt.LhR 

games. Ordinary folk pray to him to avert his eyes from 
their valuables, but the cautious sometimes employ 
"Mask's purse," a small, cheap cloth pouch worn in plain 
sight (thus easily cut or lifted) containing a small offer-
ing of coin. By convention, a pickpocket pilfers Mask's 
purse when encountering another person wearing one, 
and considers the gain a gift from the god, while the one 
who lost the purse is grateful to the Lord of Shadows for 
accepting a respectful sacrifice of a small  portion of his 
goods. Of course, nothing prevents another pickpocket 
from  targeting someone who has lost Mask's purse, but 
anyone with the ill luck to attract multiple pickpockets in 
a single outing has probably earned Mask's ire anyway. 
Priests of Mask are usually thieves by profession , and 

often serve as higher-ups in the local underworld or 
criminal syndicate. They go  by the title of demarche or 
demarchess, and wear veil-masks when acting in their 
priestly capacity. 

MIELIKKI 

Our Lady of the Forest, the Forest Queen 

People rarely speak of Mielikki except in quiet forest 
spaces. Woodlands that evoke wonder are where she 
reigns supreme, but she is said to keep watch over good 
folk in any forest,  not matter how dark or cruel.  When 
children are lost in the woods, people beseech Mielikki 
to  protect them until they are found. 

Mielikki is the goddess of the forest and the creatures 
that live within it.  She is seen as a remote and spiritual 
deity- less human-like than many other gods. She's 
not unmindful of people, but her attention and favor 
are difficult to attract. She is the patron of rangers in 
the same way that Milil is the patron of bards, but even 
rangers rarely pray to her directly. They instead pray to 
Gwaeron Windstrom, who they believe will carry their 
words to the goddess by tracking her to whichever forest 
she hides in. 

Mielikki's symbol is a unicorn, which prompts some to 
think of her as such and conflate her with Lurue, Queen 
of the Unicorns and the actual goddess of their kind. But 
most tales depict Mielikki as a beautiful woman whom 
Lurue allows  upon her back as a rider, and the two are 
thought to be boon companions. Mielikki's relationships 
with other deities of the natural world are more com-
plex. Silvanus is sometimes thought of as her father and 
Eldath is considered her sister, but Mielikki walks her 
own path through the wilds. 

She has many shrines, particularly in  the Savage 
Frontier. Most consist of a dead tree trunk into which 
has been carved a likeness of her holy symbol, a  uni-
corn's head. Alternatively, the likeness might be carved 
on a separate piece of wood and tacked to a living 
tree. These shrines typically mark the point in a forest 
beyond which locals know not to cut timber or hunt. 
Often these tributes are created by loggers at the end 
of a logging excursion as a mark of thanks to the god-
dess for providing the wood and for  keeping the timber 
cutters safe during the work. 

MI LIL 

The Lord of Song,  the One  True Hand of All-Wise 
Oghma 

Milil is the god of poetry, eloquence, and song. He is 
a god of creativity and inspiration, of the entire song 
more than just the lyrics or the music. He represents 
the finished thought, the result of the process that takes 
an idea from conception to realization. Milil is most 
venerated by bards, troubadours, and other entertain-
ers, but anyone preparing to  entertain or speak before 
a crowd might offer Milil a brief prayer for a successful 
performance. Those who seek inspiration in a creative 
endeavor also pray to Milil. 

His icons depict him as a handsome male, sometimes 
a human, sometimes an elf,  and even a half-elf in places 
(such as Aglarond) that have a large half-elf population. 
He is variously depicted as young or old, but his identity 
is always apparent because of his five-stringed harp 
made of silvery leaves, which he carries constantly.  He 
is the ideal to which all performers aspire: poised and 
confident, winningly charismatic, and a source of in-
spiration for  those who listen to him. He is said to have 
total recall of anything he hears or that is spoken while 
music plays, as well as utmost skill at improvisation. 
Holy sites dedicated to  Milil are often found  in per-
formance venues and schools of music. Whether the 
site is a vast concert hall or a small choral chamber, it 
must have excellent acoustic qualities. Milil's priests 
are patrons of the arts in addition to being performers 
themselves, and they frequently act as tutors in the arts 
of performance at his shrines and temples. 

Like Deneir, Milil is sometimes thought of as being 
in service to Oghma. In these portrayals of the deity, 
Milil is the god's left hand, also referred to as the One 
True Hand. This expression isn't meant to denigrate 
the right hand (Deneir); rather, it stems from  the fact 

SYMBOL  OF  MIELIKKI 

SYMBOL  OF  MASK 

CHAPTER  l  I WELCOME  TO  THE  REALMS 

that left-ha ndedness is more often associated with great 
artistic ability and the belief that the greatest a rt comes 
from  the 

of truth . 

MYRKUL 

The Lord of B ones, Old Lord Skull, the R eaper 

Myrkul is an ancient god, one of three for mer mortals 
who were raised to deityhood whenJergal grew weary of 
his divine duties and distributed his influence between 
them. Myrkul became the god of death and the dead, 
and ruled over the City of the Dead for centuries until 
he, in turn, was slain. In time Myrkul returned, for can 
death itself truly ever die? Myrkul's faithful see him as 
the Reaper, who lays claim to souls and brings them to 
Kelemvor to be judged. 

Myrkul is a deity of death, decay, old age, exhaustion, 
dusk, and autumn. He's the god of the ending of things 
and hopelessness, as much as Lathander is the god of 
beginnings and  hope.  Folk don't pray to Myrkul so much 
as dread him and blame him for aching bones and fading 
vision. Myrkul is thought to  be passionless and uncaring 
even of his most devout worshipers . Those who take 
Myrkul as a patron tend to be morose, taciturn, and ob-
sessed with the dead and the undead. Like many follow-
ers ofKelemvor andJergal, priests ofMyrkul serve as un-
dertakers and typically keep their patron's identity secret. 
S hrines to Myrkul or engravings of his holy symbol 
appear in many places where huma ns bury their dead, 
but full-fledged temples are ra re . The few that exist are 
hallowed places where the dead from hundreds of miles 
around a re brought for  internment, even if they were not 
of Myrkul's fa ith. There is little s pace set aside for  the 
living in s uch a location , usually a s ingle modest shrine, 
but its  catacombs and ossuaries are vast.  In the deepest 
chamber of each temple rests a throne, and upon that 
throne sits the doomwarden- the preserved corpse 
of the most revered sa int in the history of the temple 
(often its fo under). Initiates to the faith are brought to 
kneel before a temple's doomwarden, where they must 
spend a night a nd a day fas ting and meditating in com-
plete darkness . 

MYSTRA 

The Lady of Mysteries, Our Lady of Spells, the Mother 
of A ll Magic 

Mystra is the goddess of magic, and with that the god-
dess of possibilities . She is venerated by mages and by 

those who use magic or magical objects in their da ily 
lives. She a lso receives the prayers of those who find 
magic wondrous or encounter magic they fea r. Mystra is 
the goddess of the essentia l force that ma kes a ll s pell-
casting possible. She provides a nd tends  the Weave, the 
conduit through which mortal s pellcasters  and magical 
crafters can safely access the raw force of magic. 

The faith of Mystra is pervasive in Fae rOn , which is to 
be expected for a land as touched by magic as it is . Her 
worshipers include those who use magic or work closely 
with it, such as alchemists and s ages . The blue-clad 
priests of Mystran temples count wizards a nd sorcerers 
among their numbers , as well  as the occasional bard. 
The goal of Mystra's faithful is simple:  that magic be 
preserved a nd promulgated throughout the Realms . 
It isn't unusual for  her followers to keep an eye out for 
those who demonstrate high potentia l for  using magic 
and help arrange for s uch persons to find  tutelage with a 
suitable mentor. 

OGHMA 
The Binder,  the Lord of Knowledge 

Oghma is  the god of ins piration, invention, a nd knowl-
edge. Above all else,  Oghma  represents  knowledge 
in its most supreme, raw form- the idea. An aphorism 
cited by his faithful about this concept serves them as 
a prayer when it is repeated aloud: "An idea has no heft 
but it can move mountains. An idea has no authority 
but it can dominate people. An idea has no strength but 
it can push aside empires. Knowledge is the greatest 
tool of the mortal mind, outweighing anything made by 
mortal hands . Before anythin g else can ex ist, the idea 
must exist." 

Oghma's  faithful spread knowledge and literacy as 
widely as possible, believing that minds  ought never to 
be shackled by ignorance and thus not be able  to  be-
queath the be nefit  they might otherwise provide  their 
fellows. Not surprisingly,  those who follow Oghma op-
pose those who fo ster deceit, trickery, and ignorance. 
Folk of many professions favor the Binder: wizards , 
cartographers, artists , bards , clerks, inventors , sages, 
scribes , and all manner of others who uncover, pre-
serve, and create knowledge and learning. The worship 
of Oghma was, at one point, one of the few organized 
faiths  in FaerOn  that had an established orthodoxy and 
a complete network of temples that adhered to  that or-
thodoxy. S chisms during the Time of Troubles shattered 
that network, and now the structures that house the 

SvMBOL 

O F  0GHMll 

SvM B O L  OF  M vs TR ll 

CHAPTER l  I WELCOME  TO  THE  REALMS 

faith are individual temples or small  networks of allied 
temples, much in the manner of other faiths. 

THE  RED  KNIGHT 

The Lady of Strategy,  the Crimson General,  the 
Grandmaster of the Lanceboard 

The Red Knight is the goddess of planning and strategy. 
Those who favor her ca ll  themselves the Red Fellow-
sh ip.  They believe wars are won by the best planning, 
strategy, and tactics. The worship of the Red Knight is 
fi lled with doctrine abo ut strategy, such as: "Every war 
is a series of battles. Losing one doesn't mean losing 
the war." "In war, plan for peace. In peace, plan for war." 
"Seek allies among your enemy's enemies." 

Worship of the Red Knight arose among a hero-ven-

erating monastic order of Tempus in Tethyr shortly 
after the Time of Troubles. The Red Knight has since 
grown in popularity because of what her followers call 
the Great Stratagem: for decades, her priests have been 
traveling to places of warfare to educate generals and 
kings in the arts of strategy and  battlefield tactics. Many 
of the leaders they approached turned them away at 
first,  but it soon became apparent that those who ac-
cepted the counsel of the Crimson General's followers 
gained a distinct benefit. Grateful victors built temples to 
the Lady of Strategy, and gradua lly her faith spread. 
Today, followers of the Red Knight can be fo und in 
nearly any land that has seen warfare in the past cen-
tury. Worshipers of the Red Knight are rare in the gen-
eral population, but those who revere her can frequently 
be found among hi gh-ranking commanders of armies, 
instructors in colleges of war, quartermasters, a nd  the 
authors of tomes of strategy. Each temple to  the Red 
Knight includes an altar dedicated to Tempus, and so 
such a place is likely to  be frequented by mercenaries 
and soldiers. A temple is surrounded by a vast pavilion 
and courtyard , which can be rented by companies of 
soldiers and mercenaries for  practice and training. Her 
priests believe that drilling one's troops in a temple 
courtyard is a form of propitiation that the Red Knight 
looks upon with special favor. 

men and women sometimes attempt to divine the names 
of their future spouses by saying a rhyming chant that 
calls  upon Savras while gazing in a  mirror. 

Savras has no currently active  temples in Faerun, and 
his shrines are few and far between, tucked away in the 
corners of libraries and scriptoria.  Despite this lack of 
prominence, certain folk pay regular homage to Savras, 
including investigators, diviners, judges, and others 
who have a need to  uncover the truth. S uch individuals 
can sometimes be identified by the elaborate staffs they 
carry in homage to Savras. According to legend, Savras 
was trapped in Azuth's staff for ages. Azuth eventually 
freed Savras so long as Savras swore fealty,  and today 
the staff is a potent symbol for  those who revere Savras. 
Devout worshipers take great pains to decorate and em-
bellish their staffs, each hoping that Savras might find  it 
a welcoming place to stop for  a time. 

SELUNE 

Our Lady of Silver,  the Moonmaiden, the Night White Lady 

Selune is  thought to  be among the most ancient of 
Faerun's deities. Most humans in Faerun consider the 
moon in the sky to literally be the goddess gazing down 
on the world, and the trailing motes of light behind it her 
tears. She is also a goddess of stars and navigation as 
well as motherhood a nd reproductive cycles. She is seen 
as a calm power, frequently venerated by female humans 
as well as by a mix of other folk:  navigators and sailors, 
those who work honestly at night, those seeki ng protec-
tion in the dark, the lost, and the questing. 

There are many legends about Selune,  chief among 

them being the tale of the battle at the beginning of 
time between Selune and her sister, Shar. The Tears of 
Selune, the cluster of starry lights that follow the moon 
around the sky,  are thought to be brought about by the 
goddess's joy, sorrow, or both. 

Milk, a symbol of motherhood, is used in many rites 
performed by the worshipers of Selune, as are trances 
and meditation. Those who favor her typically set a bowl 
of milk outside on each night of the full  moon. 

SHAR 

SAVRAS 

The All-Seeing, the Third Eye, Divination's Lord 

The Mistress of the Nigh t, the Dark Lady,  Our Lady of 
Loss 

Savras is a god of divination and fortunetelling.  Few 
people worship him, but many pray to him when per-
forming small  rituals of foresight. For example, young 

The dark twin of Selfine, S har is the goddess of dark-
ness, both in its physical form and as it exists in the 
minds and souls of mortals. People worship Shar as 

SYM BOL  OF  T HE 
Re o  KNI G H T 

CHAPTER  1  I WELCOME TO  THE  REALMS 

the goddess of night, secrets, loss, and forgetfulness. 
She represents pains hidden but not forgotten, and ven-
geances .carefully nurtured away from the light. She is 
said to  have the power to make folk forget their pain or 
become inured to a loss, and many people in distress 
pray to Shar for such a blessing. 

Shar is revered by those who must venture into dark 
places and so pray to  her for protection, such as miners, 
as well as by those who have fallen into melancholy and 
despair, who wish to forget something, or who have lost 
something and wish to  recover it.  Priests drawn to serve 
Shar often nurture their own deep wounds or dark se-
crets, which in their minds  ma kes them best suited to 
console those who suffer from a simila r ill. Throughout 
the world's history, many followers of Shar have done 
dark deeds  in her name- most notably the shadovar of 
Netheril, an entire society dedicated to Shar. The trag-
edies and losses brought about by the fanaticism of her 
followers have caused many places to outlaw her wor-
ship and thus driven most of her priests into secrecy, but 
such prohibitions only heighten the priests' umbrage at 
authorities and make the faithful a focal point for  rebel-
lion and revenge against whoever rules. 

SILVANUS 

Oak Father,  the Old Oak, Old Father Tree 

Silvanus represents the entirety of nature, deserts as 
well as forests, sharks as much as deer. But folk in the 
North, who contend with the dangers of forests, moun-
tains,  and plains, see Silvanus more as a god of those 
places. Silvanus is thought of as a grim a nd severe 
father fi gure who metes out flood  and drought, fire and 
ice, and life and death in the wilderness. In  legends he 
often comma nds other nature deities, dealing out re-
wards and punishments to them as is fitting. 

Nature and its impartial fairness is central to the 
dogma of Silvanus's faith.  His priests seek to know the 
total s ituation, to view the macrocosm; their viewpoint 
isn't confined to  one person's or one nation's idea of 
what is best.  The loss of a farming community to goblin 
raids is a tragedy for some, but the event provides an 
opportunity for  the wilderness to grow up and make 
the land fertile again, which in turn provides new chal-
lenges for  those who would return to tame it. 

The creed of Silvanus dictates that nature's glory must 
be preserved not merely because nature is beautiful , but 
because wild nature is the true s tate of the world. Its ex-
panses refresh and revitalize the mortal soul, a nd give 

breath to  all the world. Many of his faithful oppose the 
expansion of settlements into wild places, and consider 
excessive consumption of natural resources to  be not 
only wasteful  but blasphemous. 

Silvanus often receives veneration from travelers in 
wild la nds, explorers, and residents of rural communi-
ties far from  the protection of a local lord or a great city. 
The oak leaf is Silvanus's symbol, and a grove of oak 
trees within a village or on its outskirts is often dedi-
cated as a shrine to  him. In rural places where oak trees 
don't grow, an oak leaf etched into the bark of another 
kind of tree signifies a sacred site. 

SUNE 

Lady Firehair,  the Lady of Love, the Princess of Passion 

S une Firehair is a deity of passion a nd the delights 
of the senses. She is the goddess of beauty in all its 
forms-not just pleasing sights , but also enchanting 
sounds, luxurious tastes and scents, and the exquisite 
pleasures of the flesh, from a lover's  caress to the brush 
of silk on the skin. Her worshipers seek out these plea-
sures in life, not out of mere decadence, but because the 
experience of pleasure is the touch of Sune herself. 

T he followers of Sune have a reputation as hedonists, 
and so they are, to a degree. More than that, her priests 
foster beauty in the world. They do so by creating art, by 
acting as patrons for  promising talents, and by investing 
in merchants who bring luxuries to  far-off places that 
have never seen satin or tasted a luscious wine. 

Her priests consider loveliness to  be one of their 
greatest ca llings , and all are trained in comportment, 
fashion , and cosmetics. Indeed, so ta lented are Sune's 
priests in the creation of beautiful appearances that 
many take pride in their ability to present themselves as 
stunningly attractive examples of either gender. 

But beauty is more than skin deep, say the Sunites; it 
issues from the core of one's  being and s hows one's true 
face  to the world, whether fair or foul.  The followers of 
Sune are believers in romance, true love winning over 
all , and following one's heart to one's true destination. 
Fated matches, impossible loves, and ugly ducklings be-
coming swans are all in the purview of Sune. 

Temples dedicated to Sune are common in human 
lands, and they frequently serve as public baths and 
places of relaxation. A temple usually features a mir-
rored and well-lit salon where folks can primp, as well 
as see others and be seen. Where a temple doesn't exist, 
or in a large city where the nearest temple might be too 

SYM B OL  OF  SILVA NU S 

S YMB O L  O F  SU NE 

far to walk to,  a small shrine to Sune often stands near 
a street corner. These sites consist of a mirror hung 
beneath a small roof where one can say a prayer while 
checking one's appearance. The spot might feature a 
shelf or a cupboard holding various perfumes and cos-
metics so that those without the funds to purchase such 
items can still make themselves feel  beautiful. 

TALON A 
Lady of Poison, Mistress of Disease,  the Plague-crone 

One of the most often beseeched of FaerO.n's deities, 
Talona is the goddess of disease and poison, blamed for 
everything from common illnesses to crop failure to brack-
ish wells to plague. Depicted in temple iconography as a 
withered crone with a cup or a vase that holds all the vari-
eties of disease and poison, Talona is a fearsome goddess, 
and many are the prayers that beg her for protection from 
illness and poison. Various rituals to placate her involve the 
use of three drops of blood or three tears- to be dropped 
into a well that has gone bad, dripped into the handkerchief 
of someone beset by coughing, dropped into a fire made 
by burning a withered crop, dripped into the mouth of a 
plague sufferer, and so on. It's common practice to mark a 
container of poison with her holy symbol, three droplets in 
a triangle, and during epidemics folk paint the same image 
on the homes of the infected. 

Though she is often the recipient of prayers, Talona 
has almost no temples and few cults dedicated to her. A 
cult or a shrine to her might arise in an area after it suf-
fers from pestilence, when some of those who survived 
decide to revere her or even become priests. 

TA LOS 

S tormlord,  the Destroyer 

Talos is the dark side of nature, the uncaring and de-
structive force that might strike at any time. He is the 
god of storms, forest fires, earthquakes , tornadoes, and 
general destruction. He counts the ravager, the raider, 
the looter, and the brigand among his followers. Those 
who favor him see life as a succession of random effects 
in a sea of chaos, so the devout should grab what they 
ca n,  when they can-for who can say when Talos will 
strike and send them into the afterlife? 

Talos is portrayed as a broad-shouldered, bearded 
young man with a single good eye, the other covered 
by a dark patch. He is said to carry a collection of three 
staffs, made from the first tree cut down in the world, 

SYM B OL  OF  T ALONA 

the first silver smelted, and the first iron forged.  He uses 
these staffs to raise destructive winds, cause terrible 
storms, and split the land in acts of rage. The three light-
ning bolts of his holy symbol represent these staffs, and 
when he vents his wrath on the world, he is thought to 
hurl them down from the sky as lightning strikes. 

Although Talos is a popular deity, his name is invoked 

more often out of fear than out of reverence. He does 
have priests, mostly traveling doomsayers, who warn 
of disasters to come and accept charity in exchange for 
blessings of protection. Many of his faithful wear a black 
eyepatch, even if both eyes are intact. 

TEMPUS 

The Foehammer,  the Lord of Battles 

Tempus is a war god concerned with brave conduct 
during war, using force of arms over talk for settling 
disputes, and encouraging bloodshed. The god of war is 
random in his favors , meaning that his chaotic nature fa-
vors all sides equally. Lord Tempus might be an army's 
ally one day,  and its enemy the next. He might seem to 
manifest before a battle, appearing to one side or the 
other. If he is seen riding a white mare (Veiros), then the 
army will succeed. If he rides a black stallion (Deiros), 
then defeat is certain. Most often he appears to be rid-
ing with one foot in each mount's stirrup, signifying the 
unpredictable nature of battle. In such visions, Tempus 
is always a powerfully built warrior dressed for  battle in 
the style of those who envision him. 

Tempus's favor might be randomly distributed, but 
over the centuries his priests have made an effort to 
spread and enforce a common code of warfare-to make 
war a thing of rules, respect for  reputations, and pro-
fessional behavior. This code, called Tempus's Honor, 
has the purpose of making conflicts brief, decisive, and 
as safe as possible for those not directly involved. The 
rules in the code include the following:  arm anyone who 
has need of a weapon; disparage no foe; acquit oneself 
with bravery; train all for battle; and don't engage in 
feuds. Those who poison wells, taint fields , kill noncom-
batants, or engage in torture in the name of war are all 
considered sinners. 

Worshipers of Tempus are legion, and his name is 
often on the lips of soldiers. His priests are tacticians, 
often skilled in the art of war. Many of his ordained 
don't serve in temples, but as battlefield chaplains with 
armies and mercenary companies, encouraging their 
fellow soldiers with both word and blade. Priests of 

SvMBOL  OF  TALCS 

CHAPTER 1  I WELCOME TO  THE  REALMS 

Tempus teach that war conducted properly is fair in 
that it oppresses all sides equally,  and that in any given 
battle,a mortal might be slain or might become a great 
leader among his or her companions . Mortals shou ldn't 
fear war but should see it as a natural force,  the storm 
that civilization brings about by its very existence. 

TORM 

The Loyal Fury,  the True,  the Hand of Righteousness 

Torm is the god of duty and loyalty,  revered by those 
who face  danger to  bring about a greater good. Those 
who favor Torm believe that one's salvation can be found 
through service, that every fa ilure to perform one's 
duty diminishes Torm, and that every s uccess adds to 
his  luster. Those who take Torm to  heart must strive to 
fulfill  his commandment to go out into the world and 
be a n active force for  good, to  right wrongs, and to help 
the hopeless. They must strive to  maintain peace and 
order while opposing unjust laws. Followers of Torm 
stand ever alert against corruption and are expected to 
strike quickly and hard against any evidence of rot in the 
hearts of mortals. As the sword arm of justice, Torm's 
fa ithful are expected to  bring quick deaths to  betrayers . 
Considering these tenets, it should be no surprise that 
most human paladins have Torm as their patron. 

Most temples dedicated to Torm are fortresses built 
on heights . These structures offer austere quarters for 
residents and visiting knights , drilling grounds, and 
stables. White granite, lion statues, and armored figures 
predominate in  the architecture, with the coats of arms 
of fa llen heroes decorating the walls of the great halls. 

Torm is seen as the good right hand of Tyr, and a such 

his symbol is a white gauntlet made for  the right hand. 
It represents Tyr's sword ha nd , but it is also a symbol of 
forbearance. Torm is frequently depicted with his right 
gauntlet extended palm forward, which worshipers call 
the Hand Resolute. It signifies the principle that the 
just and true must pause before acting to judge whether 
their intentions uphold Torm's  ideals. Temples, civic 
s tructures, and the homes of the faithfu l are often dec-
orated with images of the Hand Resolute as a constant 
reminder of this principle. 

Worshipers of Torm come from  most walks of life,  for 

he welcomes any who seek the best in themselves and 
others, who uphold his tenets of loyalty, responsibility, 
duty, a nd  kindness, or who are wi llin g to sacrifice to 
keep evi l from gaining ascendancy in  the world. The 
faithful know that all of them will stumble from time 

to time while following in Torm's footsteps , but Torm's 
priests teach that the shame of a  minor fa ll from grace 
is far less severe than declining to  rise oneself up to 
Torm's standards. 

TYMORA 

Lady Luck,  Our Smiling Lady 

Tymora is the bright-faced goddess of fortune , the one 
to whom gamblers and game-players pray in Faerun. 
Our Smiling Lady is said to love none so much as those 
who gamble with the utmost skill and daring. Yet she 
is thought to watch over all who take risks to better 
their fortunes . 

The battle cry of the followers of Tymora is "Fortune 
favors the bold." Someone might say words to Tymora 
before any endeavor in which a little good luck would 
help, but not when an incidence of bad luck might occur. 
(On such occasions  folk pray to Beshaba to spare them 
from  bad luck; praying to  both is thought to anger both 
goddesses.) One common method of divining the future 
is  to  toss a coin to a stranger (typically a beggar) and ask 
if it's heads. If it is, the coin is left  with the stranger as 
payment for Tymora's favor.  If it's not, the stranger can 
choose to keep it (and the bad luck)  or return it. 

Those who favor Tymora- as distinct from folk who 
invoke her name by mumbling over the dice-tend to  be 
daring sorts. Adventurers and gamblers make up much 
of their ranks. They all  have the belief that what is good 
about their lives is the result of having both good luck 
and the bravery to seek it out. Tymora has worshipers 
among all sorts of folk:  the dashing young noble,  the 
risk-taking merchant, the daydreaming field  hand , and 
the scheming ne'er-do-well. 

Priests of Tymora and temples devoted to Lady Luck 

are scarce, since her faith  tends not to stress a need 
for intermediaries: "Let the lucky man and the Smiling 
Lady suss it out,"  as the old saying goes. Shrines to 
Tymora at gambling parlors aren't unusual , however, 
a nd sometimes such establishments attract a priest and 
effectively become temples. 

SYMBOL  OF  T ORM 

SYMBOL  OF  T E MPUS 

CHAPTER 1  J  WELCOME TO  THE  REALMS 

THE  LEGEND  OF TYCHE  AND  HER TWIN 

DAUGHTERS 
Before the Dawn  Cataclysm , there was  but one goddess 
of luck, Tyche.  Ever flirting with  fortune  and  disaster, Lady 
Luck  bestowed and withdrew her favor  at  a whim.  When 
her current paramour, Lathander, started  a fight  among the 
gods , Tyche  kissed the  Morninglord with  misfortune and 
wandered off to explore the world. 

During her travels,  Lady  Luck  discovered  a budding 
rose of unequaled  beauty.  Delighted with  this fortuitous 
happenstance, Tyche  reached  to  pluck this delightful 
token, which  she assumed was  a peace overture from 
Lathander, who  sought to regain  her good  graces.  Much  to 
her amazement, Lad y Luck couldn't pluck the  rose from  its 
bush  no  matter how  hard  she tried.  Frustrated , she cursed 
the rose with  bad  luck,  and the flower's  stem  broke  in  her 
hands . Tyche  put the  plucked  rose  behind  her ear and 
continued on  her way.  Unknown  to Tyche,  the  rose was  a 
manifestation of Moander,  god  of corruption and  decay. 
The  severed  rose  stem crept into Tyche's ear and  subtly 
began  to  rot  her from  the inside out. 

When Tyche  returned  home, she came across  her dear 

friend , the goddess SelCme, waiting to speak with  her. 
Also waiting for  her were  Lathander, who wished  to  regain 
her affections , and Azuth , who  had  come to  mediate the 
dispute between  the two. Selune wept great tears as  she 
saw the corruption destroying  her friend  from  within,  and 
before Tyche  could  discern  her intent,  Selune lashed out 
with  a bolt of purifying  light. Tyche's  rotted  core  split down 
the middle and  a smal ler, brighter version  of the goddess 
of luck  stepped out, allowing the goddess of the moon to 
save that which  was  good and  pure  in  her friend.  How-
ever,  following  this  first  figure  out of the  rotten  shell was 
another form  stunning to  behold , but full  of dark  malice 
and  capricious  ill  wi ll.  As  the two forms  emerged , they 
immediately fell  upon  each  other in  hate,  struggling madly, 
and were separated only  by  the combined  efforts of all 
three visitors. 

It  is  said that Tymora, Tyche's  Fair-Haired  Daughter, 
embodies all  the grace and  kindness of her mother, while 
Beshaba, Tyche's  Unpleasant Daughter,  got only  her looks. 
Since their birth,  the twin  aspects ofTyche-Tymora,  Lady 
Luck, and  Beshaba,  Maid  of Misfortune-have battled 
each  other, contesting matters as great as  the fate  of 
nations  and  as  sma ll  as  the flip  of a coin . 

TYR 

wound dealt to him by Ao when he questioned the jus-
tice of the Overgod's actions. 

Tyr's followers devote themselves to the cause of 

justice, to the righting of wrongs and the deliverance of 
vengeance. This devotion isn't necessarily concerned 
with equality or fairness , but rather the discovery of 
truth and the punishment of the guilty. Those who favor 
Tyr tend to  be stiff-necked about matters of theology 
and laws, seeing things in terms of black and white. 
Tyr's credo of lawfulness and honesty is a demanding 
one, and his priests remind the faithful not to  hold in 
contempt others who ca n't live by it- it wouldn't be an 
honorable calling if everyone could muster the strength 
of will to follow it. 

Many orders of knighthood are devoted to Tyr, includ-
ing the Knights of Holy Judgment and the Knights of the 
Merciful Sword. Such knights-as well as judges and 
priests, clerics, and paladins who worship Tyr- some-
times wear thin strips of diaphanous cloth over their 
eyes to  remind others of the blindness of justice. 

UMBERLEE 

The Bitch  Queen, th e Queen of the Depths,  the 
Wavemother 

No community that lives by the sea can ignore the influ-
ence of Umberlee, the furious goddess whose tempestu-
ous nature reflects and is  reflected by the waters of the 
deep. Any such community makes s ure to  host festivals 
to  propitiate the Wavemother and seek her favor.  Al-
though mercurial in tempera ment, she can be generous 
to those who do her honor, as is any great queen. 

The Bitch Queen is worshiped out of fear instead of 
adoration , and ship crews offer her gems, tossed over 
the side, to ca lm  storm-tossed waters. As her most com-
mon moniker suggests, she is viewed as capricious and 
cruel with no firm ethical outlook; the sea is a savage 
place, and those who travel it had best be willing to  pay 
the price of challenging her domain. 

There is little in the way of an organized clergy of Um-
berlee. Her priests roam coasta l cities, warning of doom 
and  dema nding free passage on ships in  return for en-
s uring the goddess's pleasure.  Often they wear the col-
ors of waves and storms, and they decorate themselves 

Grimjaws,  the Maimed God,  the Evenhanded 

Tyr Grimjaws, Tyr the Evenhanded,  Wounded Tyr, the 
Maimed God, the Blind, Blind Tyr,  the Lord ofJustice-
all of these names speak to the nature of the Faerunian 
god of justice. Tyr appears as a noble warrior missing 
his right hand, which he lost to Kezef the Chaos Hound 
in an act of bravery a nd sacrifice, and with his eyes 

wrapped in cloth to signify his blindness, caused by a ,4  

/I 

SvMBOL  OF  TvR 

CHAPTER 1  I WELCOME  TO  THE  REALMS 

40 

with items that rem ind others of the sea's dangerous 
nature- a necklace of shark teeth, seaweed wrapped 
about a  h1,1man bone,  and so on. The preserved hand of 
a drowned person is thought to be a pa rticularly holy ob-
ject, and some of her few clerics use such severed ha nds 
as holy symbols . Umberlee does have a large number of 
shrines in the coastal cities , and sailors often leave flow-
ers or small candies at them in hopes that she will spare 
them on their next voyage. Both Waterdeep and Baldur's 
Gate have true temples dedicated to Umberlee, staffed 
largely by the widows of sailors los t at sea. 

WAUKEEN 

Our Lady of Gold, the Coinmaiden, the Merchant's 
Friend 

Waukeen is the goddess of wealth and trade, on both 
sides of the law. Her most a rdent worshipers include 
shopkeepers, members of trading costers, wealthy 
merchants, caravan guides, itinerant peddlers, money-
changers, a nd smugglers. She is  interested in anything 
that increases trade and the flow  of money, whether new 
trade routes, new inventions, or the whim of changing 
fashion. Those who take Waukeen as a patron can be re-
liably thought of as greedy,  but the Coinmaiden is s aid to 
frown upon misers and smile upon the industrious and 
the profligate, and thus priests who bear her holy sym-
bol find  themselves welcome in many towns and cities. 
Temples ofWaukeen resemble guildhalls and often 
serve as meeting places for trade consortiums. Those 
who follow Waukeen's ethos seek to create more op-
portunity for all and see competition for wealth as one 
of society's main means of progress. Thus, the faithfu l 
of Our Lady of Gold often find  themselves at odds with 
trade guilds and others who would form  monopolies. It's 
common practice among those who seek Waukeen's fa-
vor to set aside a tithe of ten percent of their profits, but 
rather than being given to a temple, the money is meant 
to  be spent to help a struggling business, to finance a 
new endeavor, or, if all else fails, on frivolous fun. 

THE  Goos OF  MULHORAND 
People of Faerun  refer to  M ulhorand as  one of the Old 
Empires , but most don 't know that Mulhorand  is in 
fact the oldest human  empire still  in  exi stence on  the 
continent.  Mulhorand's  pantheon of deities, sometimes 
called  god-kings  or  pharaohs , can  trace their lineage even 
farther  back. 

According to the demigods enthroned  in  Mu lhorand, the 

ancestors of the  Mu lhorandi  people were  brought fro m 
another wor ld an d ens laved  by  the  lmaskari  in  an  ancient 
empire deep in  what  is  now  Raur in,  the  Dust  Desert. When 
the gods of those ancestors  heard  the  pleas  of their distant 
fa ithful , they set out in  a great celestial ark  gu ided  by  the 
entity known as  Ptah.  Upon  arriving in  the world,  two  of 
the deities, Re  and  En Ii i, set about empowering the slaves 
and  fomenting  rebell ion . 

The  revolt succeeded,  but  Re  and  Enlil  couldn 't keep 
peace with  one another. Each  then founded  a separate 
dynasty of divine  mortals , Re  in  Mulhorand , and  Enlil 
(father of Gi lgeam)  in  Unther. Re  and  his  related  deities 
ruled  Mulhorand through  morta l incarnations for  thou-
sands of years. 

Time took  its  to ll,  and  the attention the deities  of Mu l-
horand  paid  to their fo llowers  wavered  and  diminished. 
Each  new incarnation of Isis , Osiris, and Thoth  was  a little 
more  human and  a little  less  divine. When  the  magically 
powerful  lmas kari  returned with  a vengeance a little over 
a century ago,  they stole the scepter of rulership from  a 
grasp so weak  it  barely had  any strength  left. 

Although  Mulhorand's conquerors outlawed  slavery in 
the area they now called  High  lmaskar, the  Mulhorandi 
people recognized the yoke  they now  bore. The  lmaskari 
were the  new coming of the slavemasters of old,  as  de pict-
ed  in  the carvings  in  the pharaoh s' tombs.  Many  prayed 
that the vanished  gods would  return  and  once again  free 
them from  lmaskari  rule, and  during the Sundering, that is 
what happened. What were  referred  to as Chosen  in  other 
lands were  recognized  in Mulhorand  as  living gods, come 
to  lead  the  Mulhorandi  in  an  uprising. 

Today  Mulhorand  is  ru led  by demigods that call  them-
selves  by such  names as  Re, Anhur, Horus , Isis, Nephthys, 
Set, and Thoth . They take different forms , some human 
and  others tieflings  or aasimar, but all  speak and  act 
like  the gods of legend come to  life, which  they  must be. 
This famil y of deities  bears  the scars of all  the  past loves , 
riva lries,  and  wars  between  them , but for  now they have 
set their differences  aside for the  betterment of Mul-
horand  and  its  people, and  the  people of Mulhorand  love 
them for  it. 

SYM B OL  OF'  W AUKEEN 

SYMBOL  OF'  U MBERLEE 

CHAPTER 1  I WELCOME  TO  THE  REALMS 

